RIYADH: Red Sea Global, the company fully owned by Saudi Arabia’s sovereign wealth fund, has partnered with Four Seasons Hotels and Resorts to create a facility on Shura Island as a part of the tourist attraction’s development. The resort will have 149 rooms and suites, six restaurant and lounge outlets, events spaces, and a marine discovery center. Designed by UK-based Foster+Partner, it will also host a spa, tennis courts, three pools and two separate beaches for families and adults. “This new destination on our hub island Shura provides the next generation of travelers with an incredible opportunity to discover what Saudi Arabia has to offer, building on its historic and cultural significance while highlighting the exceptional natural wonders of the region,” said John Pagano, CEO of Red Sea Global. Headquartered in Toronto, Canada, Four Seasons Hotels and Resorts currently operates 126 hotels and resorts and 53 residential properties across 47 countries. The Canadian firm also has over 50 projects under development spanned across various countries. The deal with Four Seasons comes in the wake of a contract worth nearly SR1 billion being awarded to Saudi-based Al-Ayuni Investment and Contracting Co. to develop utilities infrastructure systems at one of the Red Sea Global resorts. The firm will carry out the work in the first phase of development at Amaala, an ultra-luxury tourism destination located along the Kingdom’s north-western coast, across its Triple Bay masterplan. Earlier in February, Red Sea Global achieved a Platinum Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design certification for a collection of villas and townhouses built for the company’s staff. The certification, also referred to as LEED, was awarded by the non-profit US Green Building Council for the developments at Turtle Bay – a residential and commercial area housing workers, employees and management of The Red Sea. Red Sea Global’s sustainability accreditation management system is targeting to achieve LEED Building Design & Construction certifications for over 75 percent of its assets, as well as a LEED Cities & Communities for its destinations. The Red Sea resort will consist of natural islands and lagoons across 200 kilometers along Saudi Arabia’s western coast.