RIYADH: The National Transformation Program of Saudi Vision 2030 on Monday held a forum to highlight the most important developments and efforts made by the scheme since its inception in 2016. Mohammed Al-Tuwaijri, chairman of the program’s committee, said: “The program seeks to build the infrastructure and foster an enabling environment for the public, private and nonprofit sectors to accomplish Vision 2030.” He emphasized the significance of collaborative efforts and integrated action by all government agencies, as well as work by the corporate and nonprofit sectors, in achieving national transformation.   The forum included two interactive sessions, the first of which featured Minister of Investment Khaled Al-Falih, Minister of Municipal, Rural Affairs and Housing Majid Al-Hogail and Deputy Minister of Environment, Water and Agriculture Mansour Al-Mushaiti, who discussed the reality of infrastructure and investment in the Kingdom. The session covered a variety of subjects, most notably transformative changes in the Kingdom’s investment sector, which contributed to annual increases in the number of investment licenses and the growth of foreign investment flow. The discussion explored changes in city infrastructure around the Kingdom and its impact on the level of services provided to citizens. The second session focused on the fundamental reforms and adjustments to the Kingdom’s legislative and legal environment brought about by Vision 2030.   Minister of Justice Walid Al-Samaani examined important changes and transformations in the ministry, which have helped to improve the quality of justice services and public access to them. At the forum’s conclusion, Al-Tuwaiji recognized a number of entities within the National Transformation Program, including ministries, bodies and institutions, for their efforts and excellence across a variety of tracks. The awards presented included the 2022 Outstanding Performance Award, the Government Performance Excellence Award through Digital Services, the Private Sector Empowerment Contribution Award, the Water Desalination Record Achievement Award, the Kingdom’s Volunteer Award, the UN e-Government Index Progress Award and the Saudi Female Economic Participation Rate Target Award. The forum coincides with the launch of the program’s annual report highlighting outstanding efforts and achievements. The program has recorded progress in developing justice services, protecting the environment and ensuring sustainable food and water security, promoting community development and developing the nonprofit sector, enabling targeted groups to enter the labor market, as well as enabling digital transformation, contributing to the empowerment of the private sector and strengthening economic partnerships. 