Extreme E has revealed its first course of Season 3 for the Desert X Prix in NEOM, Saudi Arabia this weekend. For the latest updates, follow us on Twitter @ArabNewsSport The all-electric rally series’ opening round of the 2023 campaign will take place on the shores of the Red Sea, offering a new test for the 10 teams and 20 drivers participating. The track features plenty of fast corners and twisty, technical sections for the drivers to maximize the potential of the ODYSSEY 21 car, which is set to provide plenty of overtaking opportunities across two races this weekend. Part of the lap also features a sprint alongside the coastline, which will rank among one of the most high-speed sections the series has ever had. Andreas Bakkerud, Extreme E Championship driver, said: “It is my first time on an Extreme E course out here in the desert, and without (a) doubt, driving just a couple of meters from the Red Sea is pretty spectacular! “I think this track will provide a lot of great action. There are lots of challenging sections on the track, with compressions, crests, difficult corners and two very spectacular jumps. “A number of the turns are pretty wide, so drivers will be able to choose multiple lines out on the course, and that sort of variety will allow for lots of overtaking opportunities,” he added. “It is a very challenging track, but I think it will be a rewarding one for the drivers.” There are multiple elements to this year’s Desert X Prix course designed to push the drivers to the limit behind the wheel. The sandy terrain, particularly when keeping up speed through the dunes, will be crucial to manage, while being creative with racing lines as the track develops throughout the weekend will also prove pivotal. Tamara Molinaro, Extreme E Championship driver, said: “All of the Extreme E courses have that something special, and this latest design in NEOM certainly has it. “The drivers are really going to enjoy racing on this course as they can make a huge difference to lap time by being smooth, consistent and fast, and there should be plenty of overtaking out there if you are quick out of the corners. It should be a great first round of Season 3.” The first X Prix of 2023 begins in NEOM, Saudi Arabia, this weekend (March 11-12).