Reigning champions Saudi Arabia were eliminated from the 2023 AFC U-20 Asian Cup on Thursday after a 2-1 loss to Japan in Tashkent, Uzbekistan. The defeat left them in third place in Group D with only three points from three games. For the latest updates, follow us on Twitter @ArabNewsSport After a 1-0 opening victory over Kyrgyzstan and a 2-0 loss to China on Monday, the young Green Falcons needed a result in their final group game but were unable to deliver. The loss marked the end of a disappointing tournament for coach Saleh Al-Mohammadi, especially given the critical loss to China could have been avoided. His players dominated against Team Dragon but were not clinical enough in their finishing and paid the price when they were caught out by two counter-attacking strikes. The defeat meant that even victory against Japan might not have been enough to progress, though the players gave their all against Japan on Thursday, regardless. Saudi Arabia had the first serious attempt on goal, after seven minutes, as Suhayb Al-Zaid’s low shot from outside the area had Ryoya Kimura diving to his right to make the save. After 15 minutes however, the Samurai Blue took the lead. Taisei Abe found Kuryu Matsuki inside a crowded box and the captain cut inside Ahmed Al-Julaydan to slip the ball past goalkeeper Osama Al-Mermesh and into the net. Japan, who needed just a point to be sure of progressing after winning their opening two games, started to get on top but, though it might not have been the best of performances in the first 45 minutes from the Saudis, they finished the half strongly and should have been level at the break. First, Musab Al-Juwayr slipped the ball through to Abdullah Radif on the left side of the area and the striker’s fierce shot was well-saved by Kimura. The goalkeeper did, however, spill the resultant corner and Mohammed Sulaiman headed against the bar from close range. With the goal at his mercy, however, Khalid Al-Asiri just could not connect with the rebound. Saudi Arabia began the second half as they ended the first. A glancing header by Radif from close range was saved and Al-Zaid saw another shot similarly denied by the ’keeper. Japan looked dangerous on the counter, though, and with 20 minutes remaining Al-Mermesh managed to stick out a foot to save a shot from Niko Takahashi that was heading for the bottom corner. Soon after, Saudi Arabia got the goal they had been so desperately looking for, as Yazid Joshan timed his run perfectly and headed home a left-sided Al-Juwayr corner. Suddenly there was hope — but it was soon extinguished when Matsuki found space in the area to send a powerful header into the Saudi net for his second goal of the game. And that was that. Saudi Arabia’s early exit ends a run of successful tournaments for the country’s various youth teams. As they head home to Riyadh, the youngsters, some of whom were in tears at the final whistle, will surely reflect on what might have been.