DUBAI: Luxury Swiss watchmaker Vacheron Constantin’s Hekaya 1755 exhibition in Riyadh offers a journey of brand discovery highlighting the maison’s special relationship with Saudi Arabia, the company’s regional director has said. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle Running until March 8 in Diriyah, the immersive experience also showcases Saudi artist Saad Al-Howede’s work to complement the timepieces on display. Director Christophe Ramel told Arab News: “Our relationship with Saudi Arabia dates back to the 1950s when the ruling family and its close entourage became part of our heritage.   “As early as 1957, the king maintained regular correspondence with the maison, and in the 1980s, timepieces from the Kalla collection were cherished by the royal family of the Kingdom.” He said there was no better way to give back than by bringing the exhibit to the region. As well as a display of historic timepieces, visitors can learn more about the brand’s heritage and the watchmaking process. “One of my favorite timepieces is the latest model, Egerie Creative Edition for women. The timepiece is inspired by the Burano lace and combines watchmaking expertise with four intricate artistic crafts — tapisserie, engraving, enameling, and gem-setting that the maison strives to perpetuate,” Ramel added.   Exhibition visitors will also be able to see the earliest pocket watch made by founder Jean-Mark Vacheron in 1755. The pride of Vacheron Constantin’s heritage, the silver watch, signed J. M. Vacheron a Geneve on the movement, is the only timepiece known that identifies the company’s founder by his first name. Ramel said: “From pocket watches to timepieces specially created for the Saudi royal families, guests will get a complete insight into the history of the maison.” On Al-Howede’s pieces, he added: “The artist draws inspiration from the country’s traditions while simultaneously embracing the principles of innovation and progress, a parallel that we can draw with Vacheron Constantin.” The artist’s decorative unit “Shamsa” aims to capture the timeline of the Kingdom’s architecture while preserving its unique identity.   “The artwork incorporates traditional bisht elements, such as golden and silver threads, bringing a contemporary feel to the exhibition,” Ramel said. The exhibition is just one of the ways the maison has continued to strengthen its bond with Saudi Arabia. “With the Kingdom’s ambitious and long-term development plan under Vision 2030, we see a clear correlation between the country and the maison’s widened ambitions,” he added. Last year, Vacheron Constantin launched its One of Not Many mentorships program with Jeddah’s Dar Al-Hekma University, with six Saudi women acting as mentors. Ramel said: “We have a robust plan in the pipeline for years to come to allow a local connection to be built with the brand more intimately. Our relationship with the Kingdom is longstanding and will only continue to fortify.”