RIYADH: The London College of Fashion’s public talk program “Faith & Fashion” visited Riyadh to discuss creative opportunities for British and Saudi brands and changing norms in the Saudi fashion industry. The “Faith & Fashion” public talks program hosts conversations on relationships between religious and fashion cultures. It acts as a conduit for exchange by bringing together communities and interest groups who might otherwise be unable to share a platform. The podcast’s episode, titled “The UK and Saudi Fashion in Dialogue,” was hosted by Reina Lewis, a professor of cultural studies at the London College of Fashion at the University of the Arts London. For 10 years, under the umbrella of “Faith and Fashion,” Lewis has hosted conversations about the role of dress in the creative expression of individual and community identity. It has brought together designers and brands, fashion professionals in media and distribution, consumers, and community leaders from many cultures in the UK and worldwide. The podcast, which will soon be available online, featured speakers Shahd Al-Shehail, co-founder of the ethical luxury label Abadia and social enterprise Project JUST; Rae Joseph, vintage expert, luxury consultant and circular fashion advocate; Loai Naseem, co-founder of Lomar, Saudi designer, entrepreneur and business executive; and Sacha Newall, co-founder of My Wardrobe HQ. The podcast shed light on how Saudi Arabia is playing a role in the Middle East becoming one of the fashion industry’s fastest-growing markets. Due to rapidly changing norms, the Kingdom, which has one of the youngest populations in the world and a growing interest in fashion, is predicted to experience growth in all aspects of the industry, including luxury, modest, sustainable and leisure fashion. Fashion is becoming more important as Saudis spend more time socializing outside the home, opening up new market prospects for UK fashion companies. The podcast also discussed sustainability and how it will influence consumers and Saudi designers. “The idea of sustainability, in my opinion, needs to be included. The designer should have a deeper purpose, which they should express through their designs. It should be incorporated in fashion school,” Naseem told Arab News. Using textile innovation and design, Lomar elevates traditional dress for modern life with sustainable men, women and children’s clothing. The “Faith and Fashion” podcast is sponsored by Generation 2030, The London College of Fashion, the British Embassy and Al-Manwar research center. Generation 2030 is a youth-to-youth organization that aims to build cultural bridges between people in Saudi Arabia and the UK. 