DUBAI: Can a fashion week go by without French Algerian model Loli Bahia walking for renowned luxury labels? Ardent followers of the busy up-and-coming model would think not. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The 20-year-old catwalk star, who has been taking the fashion industry by storm, this week walked the runway at the star-studded Louis Vuitton show during Paris Fashion Week. She graced the catwalk in a white suit that featured ripped trousers — secured with a thin black belt — and a blazer that was unbuttoned from the center. She donned closed-toed black heels and an off-white purse.   The show was attended by A-list stars including Bollywood actress Deepika Padukone, Romanian Jordanian designer Amina Muaddi and actresses Shay Mitchell, Emma Stone, Zendaya, Catherine Deneuve, Sophie Turner, Chloë Grace Moretz, Emma Laird and Noemie Merlant. Social media stars including football icon Lionel Messi’s wife Antonela Roccuzzo, Brazilian YouTuber Camila Coelho and models Sharon Alexie and Leonie Hanne were also in attendance. Muaddi, who was awarded the Neiman Marcus Award for Innovation in the Field of Fashion this week, donned a brown and beige thigh-high skirt and a black crop top, with white pointy-toed heels from her eponymous label.   Meanwhile, Padukone wore a black leather blazer dress, with large metallic buttons, by French fashion designer Nicolas Ghesquiere. She teamed it with sheer lace-embroidered stockings and black knee-high heeled leather boots. Louis Vuitton took to the Musee d’Orsay for its fall-winter catwalk show, sending a modern lineup of playful, sculptural looks down a slick, black runway designed to evoke a Paris street. Exploring notions of French style, Ghesquiere, artistic director of the label’s womenswear collections, played with volumes of clothing and trompe l’oeil effects, including boots that looked like black high heel shoes worn with white socks and fuzzy coats resembling blazers.   Other looks included bulky Bermuda shorts, wide bustier dresses cinched with thin belts and glittering beaded dresses. Handbags were varied, including one fashioned to look like a typical blue Paris street sign, trimmed in green — with “Louis Vuitton” stamped in white letters. At the end of the show, the sound of footsteps was projected throughout the space, giving the impression of invisible models walking down the runway — an effect drawn up by sound artist Nicolas Becker.