DUBAI: Saudi model Amira Al-Zuhair recently attended LVMH Prize’s cocktail party, held during Paris Fashion Week. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The star-studded gathering supported the 2023 LVMH Prize — an annual award that rewards young fashion designers, selected for their talent, with a large financial endowment and mentorship by the Louis Vuitton Moet Hennessy organization. For the event, Al-Zuhair opted for a black set with cut-out detailing at the waist. The rising star accessorized her look with black fingerless gloves, matching heels, and a red purse for a pop of color.   The event was also attended by hijab-wearing model Ikram Abdi, who also chose to wear black. She donned a velvet floor-length dress. US Italian actress Julia Fox, “Game of Thrones” star Sophie Turner, and British TV presenter Alexa Chung were also in attendance. Fox wore a stone-washed denim dress with thigh-high slits on the sides, and brown combat boots, while Turner donned a black blazer with matching leather trousers. Arab models have had a busy month grazing runways for fashion weeks in London, Milan, New York, and now in Paris.   French Algerian model Loli Bahia has been hopping from one show to another. She walked for the Givenchy show on Thursday wearing a pearl-white floor-length dress, with long sleeves, covered in beads to the waist. She also modeled for French fashion designer Isabel Marant. For that show, she wore a daring cut-out mini dress, which she paired with embellished black tights. For the Marant runway, Bahia was joined by Dutch Moroccan Egyptian model Imaan Hammam who turned heads in a black zip-up dress. She walked down the runway with her signature voluminous curly hair, black boots, and a purse. Earlier in the week, Al-Zuhair hit the runway at Milan Fashion Week, showing off an all-black look for luxury Italian label Dolce and Gabbana. She was dressed in an expertly cut blazer dress, complete with a black rosette on the lapel. The chic, masculine-inspired look boasted a black tie, black tights and pointed pumps with a thin strap at the ankle.