MANCHESTER, England: Marcus Rashford and Bruno Fernandes struck as Manchester United beat Real Betis 4-1 on Thursday and began the healing process after Sunday’s humiliating 7-0 rout by Liverpool. Erik ten Hag’s players delivered a rousing response to the defeat at Anfield, with the Europa League quarterfinals within reach after a commanding round-of-16 first-leg win. Antony and Wout Weghorst were also on target at Old Trafford, with Ayoze Perez scoring for Betis. United could have taken an even more commanding lead into next week’s second leg after Weghorst, Rashford and Antony all failed to capitalize on further openings. Ten Hag had given his players the chance to make amends for Sunday by naming an unchanged lineup to the one at Liverpool. It had the desired effect, with Rashford smashing United in front after six minutes. United could have extended the lead, but the game was even at halftime after on-loan Leicester forward Perez fired low shot past David de Gea in the 32nd. Antony put United back in front seven minutes into the second half with a curling effort into the top corner from outside of the box. Fernandes made it 3-1 when he headed in Luke Shaw’s corner in the 58th. Perhaps the biggest cheer of the night came when Weghorst lashed the ball home in the 82nd after missing a host of earlier chances. Substitute Sven Michel salvaged a 3-3 draw for Union Berlin against Union Saint-Gilloise with a goal a minute from the end in the German capital. Victor Boniface scored twice for Union Saint-Gilloise, including the go-ahead goal in the 72nd minute before Michel’s equalizer. The two sides already met in the group stage this season. The Belgian Union won 1-0 in Berlin while the German Union won by the same score in Brussels. At Stadio Olimpico in Rome, Jose Mourinho’s Roma made a step toward advancing with a 2-0 victory over Real Sociedad. Tammy Abraham set up the opening goal for Stephan El Shaarawy to finish a fast counter in the first half before substitute defender Marash Kumbulla doubled the advantage with a close-range header three minutes from time. Bayer Leverkusen had the same advantage over Ferencvaros after their first-leg game. Kerem Demirbay opened the scoring for Leverkusen in the 10th, and Edmond Tapsoba added the second toward the end for the hosts. EUROPA CONFERENCE LEAGUE Michail Antonio struck twice late in the first half to guide West Ham past AEK Larnaca 2-0 in Cyprus. Despite a troubled season in the Premier League, the Hammers have been cruising in the third-tier European competition with a perfect record. Said Benrahma crossed for Antonio’s first with the striker doubling the advantage in stoppage time for his first two goals in the European campaign this season. Manu Trigueros put Villarreal — a Champions League semifinalist last season, ahead in the first half before Anders Dreyer tied it at 1-1 with a second-half goal for Anderlecht in the draw in Brussels. Nice beat Sheriff away in Moldova 1-0.