RIYADH: The Mohammed Bin Salman Nonprofit City and IHG Hotels and Resorts have signed a management agreement to build a new Hotel Indigo within the Riyadh city. The hotel, which will be located near the Irqah area along Wadi Hanifa, is set to open in 2025 and foundation works have already been completed. It will add to IHG’s growth plans across various new developments aligned with Vision 2030’s tourism strategy. In a statement, nonprofit city officials said: “The signing of a new Hotel Indigo in Mohammed Bin Salman Nonprofit City is significant, as it is the first nonprofit city of its kind, set to be an incubator for youth and for local and international institutions supporting innovation, entrepreneurship, and future leaders.” The hotel will be located next to the city’s Al-Mishraq Zone, and serve as a living laboratory to promote innovation, social life, creativity, and science and technology. Guests will be able to take advantage of the city’s cultural experiences by using a pedestrian-only main street as part of a so-called 15-minute planning concept, with connections to cultural offerings as well as fine dining restaurants overlooking Wadi Hanifa and views of Riyadh’s city skyline. “The city will deliver a platform to experiment with new products and technologies and will offer interactive retail environments providing customers with immersive experiences. “The infrastructure will include a comprehensive mobility solution, supported by a sustainable cooling and shading system and the solution will become a prime example for modern and integrated urban transportation, while delivering a comfortable environment encouraging outdoor activities,” the statement added. The new-build hotel will include 234 guestrooms and suites, as well as 138 serviced apartments, and will be situated 15 minutes from Riyadh city center and 10 minutes from the UNESCO World Heritage Site, Al-Turaif district in Diriyah, while also providing easy access to surrounding landscapes and iconic and innovative building structures. It will also feature several dining options and other facilities, including four multi-purpose meeting spaces, a health club, and swimming pool. Haitham Mattar, IHG’s managing director for India, the Middle East, and Africa, said: “We are delighted to partner with Mohammed Bin Salman Nonprofit City, a flourishing community of creative thinkers and innovative pioneers that will build the future of Saudi Arabia. “The city is devoted to encouraging youth leadership for a better future in the Kingdom, and our partnership is a wonderful opportunity to continue our support for Saudi youth and Vision 2030. “Mohammed Bin Salman Nonprofit City is an ideal destination, as it represents a vast oasis within the city, and is close to the historical capital, Riyadh.” He noted that the hotel would cater to guests visiting the city and “looking to experience its business innovation, recreational entertainment options, cultural learning opportunities, outdoor destinations, and various other unique activities.” David Henry, chief executive officer of Mohammed Bin Salman Nonprofit City, said: “I am very pleased that IHG has selected our city for another world-class hotel offering that will be designed to provide a range of services that align with our youth-oriented focus. “We are also delighted that the Ministry of Culture will oversee the inclusion of Saudi artwork in the hotel, thereby aligning with the missions of the foundation’s Misk Art Institute, and the Hotel Indigo brand.” IHG, one of the world’s leading hotel companies and also known as the InterContinental Hotels Group, currently operates 37 hotels across five brands in Saudi Arabia, including the InterContinental, Crowne Plaza, Holiday Inn, Staybridge Suites, and voco, with 31 hotels in the development pipeline set to open within the next three to five years.