RIYADH: Delegates from the supervisory body in charge of overseeing and regulating global expos met Saudi ministers and other experts in Riyadh on Tuesday on the second day of their ongoing visit to evaluate the Kingdom’s bid to host Expo 2030.
During the meeting, the Bureau International des Expositions’ Enquiry Mission learned more about the ideas and meaning behind the proposed Saudi theme for the event: “The Era of Change: Together for a Foresighted Tomorrow.”
“The choice of theme reflects Saudi Arabia’s depth of aspiration, authenticity of intent and willingness to play an active role on the global stage, to solve the most pressing challenges of our era,” Abdullah Al-Swaha, the minister of communications and information technology, told the mission team.
“Our vision is to make Riyadh Expo 2030 a collaborative platform to design and share the tools to create the blueprints for a better tomorrow. We also aspire for Expo 2030 to enable foresight-led action by countries with impact at a global scale, and to offer the greatest impact and biggest possibilities to co-create the future.”
The theme aims to inspire participants to develop their own individual and diverse interpretations and perspectives on this central premise, officials said, and to help bring them alive at the expo through original and innovative exhibitions and pavilions, along with cultural, business and scientific programs.
Within the main theme there are three sub-themes to the Saudi bid: “A Different Tomorrow,” “Climate Action” and “Prosperity for All.” These were explained and explored on Tuesday through a series of presentations and discussions, including the sharing of information about national initiatives and innovation projects led by Saudi businesses and other organizations.
Central to these discussions were details of the Kingdom’s achievements in the development of future cities, energy transition, climate action, and the digital economy, officials said, all under the transformative umbrella of Saudi Vision 2030.
The Bureau International des Expositions delegation also met senior officials from the Public Investment Fund and NEOM, the massive smart city development in northwestern Saudi Arabia, to gain a better understanding of the ways in which such major projects in the Kingdom demonstrate the country’s foresight about the future of urban living, sources said. They also visited NEOM’s The Line Exhibition, which provided an immersive, multimedia experience showcasing the Saudi vision for the sustainable urban communities of tomorrow.
The day ended with a reception and dinner in the presence of Princess Haifa Al-Mogrin, Saudi Arabia’s permanent representative to UNESCO, Hala Al-Tuwaijri, president of the Saudi Human Rights Commission, and Iman Al-Mutairi, the deputy minister of trade.
Discussions during the reception revolved around Saudi Arabia’s advances in the realm of human rights and how these achievements have influenced the “Prosperity for all” expo sub-theme.