HAYDEN CHRISTENSEN For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle  When the Canadian actor, then barely out of his teens, first appeared as Anakin Skywalker (father of Luke and Leia, and later to become Darth Vader) in 2002’s “Star Wars: Attack of the Clones” and its follow-up, 2005’s “Revenge of the Sith,” he became a pariah. His performances were roundly slammed by critics and fans alike, and what should have been the greatest thrill of his life probably came to feel like a poisoned chalice. At that time, an invitation to be a guest of honor at a Comic Con convention would probably have been as welcome as someone suggesting he spend a weekend poking himself in the eye with a salty toothpick. His efforts have been reevaluated though, with many suggesting that Christensen was unfairly made a scapegoat for “Star Wars” creator George Lucas’ famously terrible dialogue and his apparently deliberate directorial choice of making conversation seem formal and stilted. Seen in that context, Christensen did just as good a job as, say, Mark Hamill as Luke Skywalker in the original trilogy. And fans have begun to recognize that. DAVID HARBOUR  The US actor’s career was ticking along nicely anyway, but since he first stepped into the shoes of police chief Jim Hopper in Netflix’s sci-fi drama “Stranger Things” his profile has rocketed. Since then, Harbour’s ability to bring humanity and humor to action roles has led him further into Comic Con territory with the title role in 2019’s “Hellboy,” and Marvel appearances as Red Guardian in “Black Widow” and the upcoming “Thunderbolts.” It’s “Stranger Things” that is the biggest draw, though; Hopper’s evolution from cynical, lazy slob to courageous, surprisingly buff protector and hero over the course of the show’s four seasons has been a joy to watch, and it’s hard to imagine anyone except Harbour pulling it off. MATT SMITH  The British actor has a double claim to Comic Con fame. From 2010-2013 he played the title role in the seminal BBC sci-fi series “Doctor Who,” becoming nationally famous overnight. More recently, he was the maverick Daemon Targaryen in HBO’s “Game of Thrones” spin off, “House of the Dragon.” In between times, he became globally recognized, playing Prince Philip in two seasons of Netflix’s “The Crown.” His unusual looks (his “Doctor Who” showrunner once said Smith looks like “a cartoon of a handsome man”) add an enigmatic, otherworldly edge to his characters. ANDY SERKIS Serkis’ extraordinary physicality has made him the Alpha performance-capture artist of his generation (and the eighth highest-grossing actor of all time). His most-famous role is as Gollum in the “Lord of the Rings” trilogy and “The Hobbit,” but he’s also been King Kong, Caesar in “Planet of the Apes,” and Supreme Leader Snoke in three “Star Wars” films. He’s also a fine actor in the flesh, as proven by his performances as serial killer Ian Brady in “Longford” and as new wave musician Ian Dury in “Sex & Drugs & Rock & Roll.” MAY CALAMAWY  The US-based Egyptian-Palestinian actress gained plenty of plaudits for her portrayal as Dena in the award-winning sitcom “Ramy,” before landing her most high-profile role yet, as Layla El-Faouly/Scarlet Scarab in the Marvel series “Moon Knight.” Layla is an archeologist and the wife of the series’ hero Marc Spector/Moon Knight. She told Entertainment Weekly that showrunner Mohamed Diab and his wife Sarah were “huge champions of Layla,” adding, “She was the channel through which we were representing Egypt.” ANTHONY DANIELS  Daniels holds a unique place in pop-culture history as the only actor to have appeared in every single “Star Wars” movie (including the spin-offs and several TV shows and specials). Not that he’s necessarily instantly recognizable to any but the most-dedicated fans: As the fusty protocol droid C-3PO, he’s been clad in a gold suit for most of his screen time, much of which was spent berating his wayward, impudent companion R2-D2. Still, few others alive can offer as much insight into the behind-the-scenes workings of the greatest sci-fi franchise of all time. Daniels is also part of the history of another enormously successful fantasy epic, having voiced Legolas the elf in Ralph Bakshi’s 1978 animation of “Lord of the Rings.”