LONDON: “Luther: The Fallen Sun,” featuring Idris Elba, Andy Serkins and Cynthia Erivo, landed on Netflix on Friday as director Jamie Payne shared with Arab News the challenges of filming the new movie, as well as his take on Saudi Arabia’s growing film industry. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle After a successful theatrical release accompanied by premiers in London and New York, fans will be able to watch the TV series-turned-film on Netflix. Payne spoke to Arab News about the task of adapting the popular TV series to the big screen, saying that the biggest challenge was making sure to “honor” the series by “protecting that umbilical cord back to the DNA of what made it great.  “That was the biggest responsibility I had,” he added. During the premiere of “Luther: The Falling Sun” at the BFI in London, Elba hinted at plans for a possible franchise of the film, something that can take up James Bond’s “real estate.” In “Luther: The Fallen Sun,” Elba reprises his role as the brilliant but troubled and impulsive Detective Chief Inspector John Luther, the character he played in the award-winning BBC series “Luther” between 2010 and 2019. A post shared by Idris Elba (@idriselba) Continuing from the show, the movie follows the adventures of Luther as he escapes from prison to capture a narcissistic cyber psychopath and serial killer, played by Serkis. Meanwhile, Payne took the chance to comment on the rapid expansion of Saudi Arabia’s film industry and the importance of new platforms like the Red Sea International Film Festival for the region. “I think it is great there is a focus on encouraging the film industry into a space like Saudi Arabia,” he told Arab News. A post shared by Idris Elba (@idriselba) “To take any industry, whether that’d be the Arab film industry or the French film industry, I think we need to have as broad a conversation as possible when it comes to storytelling approach. “I think having a new arena (such as the RSIFF) for stories only adds to something that I love passionately, and that’s telling stories. The fact that we are encouraged to go there, and…that Saudi Arabia is celebrating films the way that the Saudis are, I think it is really important,” Payne added. Asked about the idea of directing in the Kingdom, Payne said: “I’d love to film there. Who wouldn’t?”