RIYADH: Saudi attorneys have affirmed that recent technological developments have fundamentally changed the legal industry, from improving accessibility to creating a more streamlined legal process. Thamer Al-Anazi, a member of the Saudi Bar Association, said: “One of the most important advantages is the reduction of time and effort in accessing laws and regulations…There is no doubt that technology has an impact on many sectors, including attorneyship.” The speed and quality of litigation have seen tremendous progress with the emergence of virtual litigation, also known as remote litigation. ‎Al-Anazi explained: “The automation of lawsuits in legal establishments had an impact on easing the participation of the team, preserving information, providing a database and digital archive, and facilitating the management of lawsuits.” The automation of lawsuits in legal establishments had an impact on easing the participation of the team, preserving information, providing a database and digital archive, and facilitating the management of lawsuits. Thamer Al-Anazi, Member, Saudi Bar Association Communication facilitated through technology has led to more efficient use of time and effort on the parts of both the legal team and the client. The ability to carry out tasks remotely is one of the clear advantages of technology in attorneyship, and the abundance of legal information provided by digital libraries has improved the quality of legal work. The impact of technology is also evident in training, legal courses and workshops that are offered online, making the latest information accessible to attorneys. According to Al-Anazi, this saves time, effort and money, and eases the burden on the institutions hosting the courses, as well as their trainers and trainees. Sultan Al-Masloukhy, a lawyer and arbitrator, agreed that technology has greatly impacted the legal world, allowing lawyers to attend judicial sessions and important meetings and follow up on firm operations while abroad. “Paper schedules and huge files are no longer necessary in following up on daily routine operations as before,” he said, adding that cloud storage, accessible on mobile devices, has allowed lawyers and administrators to “follow all work with accuracy that exceeds that of paper files.‎” Electronic payment methods have also streamlined the process of money transfer from client to firm. The digitized platforms used by many law firms today have also contributed to raising the levels of transparency between the legal team and the client. In the world of Saudi litigation, electronic payment methods have streamlined the process of money transfer from client to firm. The digitized platforms used by many law firms today have also contributed to raising the levels of transparency between the legal team and the client. “‎Each client now has their own page in the law firm’s electronic system, from which they can follow up on all business affairs, developments, documents and invoices,” Al-Masloukhy said. Technology has not only eased the burden on those working in the justice system but has also improved the time in which litigants can conclude their lawsuits and obtain their rights. Al-Masloukhy praised the developments undertaken by the Ministry of Justice as these will “help increase liquidity for all sectors benefiting from the justice system, which will accelerate the growth of the national economy and save a lot of time for all beneficiaries.” Youssef Al-Zuwaylai, a legal researcher and adviser, said that technological developments have led to the creation of laws that give recognition to electronic documents and to civil and commercial electronic transactions. “‎We now have an integrated legal structure to reduce electronic crimes and track individual or collective activities that take place through the technology sector,” he said. ‎The Saudi Electronic Transactions Law enacted in 2007 facilitates the use of electronic transactions at the local and international levels to improve government procedures, international trade, commercial investment, medicine, education and other areas. Al-Zuwaylai added: “The Kingdom is currently witnessing a qualitative leap in cybersecurity governance, reducing the risk of official communication accounts being hacked or misused, for access to a safe technological space. “The National Cybersecurity Authority plays an important role in preparing policies and guidelines related to this in the fields of electronic commerce, protection of personal data, social media accounts and remote work.” 