RIYADH: The World Economic Forum President Borge Brende made an official visit to Saudi Arabia on Monday to explore opportunities for improved cooperation between the Kingdom and the WEF, Saudi Press Agency reported. Brende met with representatives from the government and private sectors to discuss regional and global economic developments and areas of mutual interest. He also went on a tour of the ancient At-Turaif District. The WEF president’s visit followed the Kingdom’s successful participation at the WEF Annual Meeting at Davos in January, with a high-level delegation led by Minister of Foreign Affairs Prince Faisal bin Farhan. The delegation focused on bridging global divides and facilitating near-term stability while driving long-term transformation. During the annual conference, the Kingdom also signed a letter of intent with the WEF to launch a new accelerator program to catalyze innovation in Saudi Arabia. The Saudi delegation also emphasized the Kingdom’s role as a pioneering partner in the Global Collaboration Village, which aims to use the metaverse to benefit the global community. In January, the Ministry of Economy and Planning, in collaboration with WEF’s innovation platform UpLink, launched the Food Ecosystems in Arid Climates Challenge, a global call to food entrepreneurs developing innovative solutions. The challenge is to crowdsource bright ideas for food security in nations affected by low rainfall, drought and desertification. The initiative was announced with a call for proposals from food industry entrepreneurs, startups, social ventures, and small and medium-sized enterprises. The ministry also became a member of the WEF Jobs Consortium, a group of CEOs, international organizations, ministers and other leaders dedicated to promoting a better future of work for all by facilitating job creation and job transition. The Kingdom’s participation in the jobs consortium is aligned with Saudi Vision 2030 and its commitment to developing a robust, vibrant economy that generates new sectors, more jobs and cutting-edge innovation.