RIYADH: Saudi Arabia’s General Entertainment Authority in partnership with the International Association of Amusement Parks and Attractions kicked off the first IAAPA Middle East Trade Summit in the JW Marriott hotel in Riyadh on Tuesday. The two-day summit comes as part of efforts to further boost the Kingdom’s growing entertainment sector. It sold out on Feb. 22, with many entertainment industry experts and specialists eager to attend. Peter van der Schans, executive director and vice president of the IAAPA Europe, Middle East, and Africa, told Arab News: “IAAPA has been around for over 100 years, but it’s new to the Middle East, and I am really impressed with the progress of the entertainment sector in Saudi Arabia and if you see the vast development of what this country is going through and I am not only looking at the entertainment industry but I am seeing an economic change."   He continued: “In IAAPA, we have a summit and 24 booths from companies all over the world from the US to Europe to local companies as well. We give them a platform where they can present their products, so we bring a trading concept regarding the industry and connection, and we also bring a huge network and over 20 international speakers, and sharing their knowledge with the Saudi people, so basically you come here to see the best products and learn from the best people in the industry.” Forty-five speakers gathered to share their expertise and experiences in the entertainment industry in the Kingdom. Many of the speakers attending the two-day summit include figureheads from Disneyland Paris, Parques Reunidos, and Six Flags Qiddiya.   Day one of the summit took attendees through the Kingdom’s entertainment destinations and projects via a presentation with many topics including safety, the central market, and major entertainment projects that are in progress. Day two of the summit honed in on extensive dialogue sessions on human capital, preparing the next generation for the entertainment industry, and supply chain strategy. Leading up to the IAAPA Middle East Trade Summit, the GEA in partnership with the Institute for Attractions Managers hosted an educational training program dedicated to professional development from March 5-7 at the JW Marriott, Riyadh. The 13-hour training program brought together 30 entertainment specialists from six different countries in a five-unit course program highlighting different aspects of the entertainment sector. The instructors of the program were entertainment experts that lectured on entertainment safety, human resources, finances, management, operations, and marketing. The aim of the training was to spark a hub for networking and give specialists insights into the entertainment sector.  