RIYADH: Officials from the Saudi Development and Reconstruction Program for Yemen are taking part in the 5th UN Conference on the Least Developed Countries being held in the Qatari capital Doha, the Saudi Press Agency reported on Wednesday. The program’s General Supervisor Mohammed Al-Jaber was representing the organization as part of the Kingdom’s delegation led by Minister of Economy and Planning Faisal Al-Ibrahim. The conference, running until March 9, aims to accelerate sustainable development in countries that require assistance through an action plan for the next decade. During the conference, the SDRPY’s Assistant General Supervisor Hassan Al-Attas participated in two sessions organized by the UN Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia, in partnership with SDRPY. Both sessions looked at ways to support the least-developed countries, including Yemen, and how to establish initiatives and partnerships for stakeholders to achieve the Doha Work Program, and review the Kingdom’s experience through the SDRPY as a development model that effectively contributed to improving the infrastructure of the basic Yemeni sectors. The SDRPY representatives also took part in high-level thematic round tables and a session where they highlighted the Kingdom’s efforts in Yemen to achieve sustainable development. The roundtable also tackled supporting structural transformation as an engine for achieving prosperity, enhancing the participation of the least-developed countries in international trade and regional integration, and addressing environmental issues, including climate change. Side sessions concentrated on topics including sustainable energy, rural and agricultural development, digital communication, and sustainable tourism. Meanwhile, Al-Ibrahim held a number of meetings with senior officials on the sidelines of the UN conference, where he discussed the sustainable development goals achievement and issues of common concern. He met with the secretary-general of the Organization of African, Caribbean, and Pacific States, Georges Rebelo Pinto Chikoti, to discuss was of enhancing cooperation between the Kingdom and the organization in a number of fields. Al-Ibrahim also met with ESCWA Executive Secretary Dr. Rola Dashti, and president of the Economic and Social Council and Bulgaria’s permanent representative to the UN in New York, Lachezara Stoeva. The meetings also included talks with the undersecretary-general and high representative for the least-developed countries, landlocked developing countries and small island developing states, Rabab Fatima.