Abu Dhabi: Mubadala Arena in Zayed Sports City is set to host the Abu Dhabi Jiu-Jitsu Pro Tour Abu Dhabi International Jiu-Jitsu Championship 2023 competitions from March 17 to 19. For the latest updates, follow us on Twitter @ArabNewsSport The contests, open to clubs and academies from around the world, will feature kids, youth, amateur, professional, and master divisions. The three-day championship, jointly organized by the UAE Jiu-Jitsu Federation and the AJP, is the second set of AJP competitions in the 2023 events season. The first was the AJP No-Gi Abu Dhabi International Jiu-Jitsu Championship, which took place last month. Youssef Abdullah Al-Batran, a UAEJJF board member, said: “The AJP championships are a valuable component in the schedule of championship activities for the current sporting season and help to highlight a significant number of fresh talent aiming to build a successful professional career. “The increased registrations for events testify to the effectiveness of the UAEJJF’s initiatives to develop the sport, broaden the pool of participants, and strengthen Abu Dhabi’s position as the world’s capital for jiu-jitsu. “We always strive to offer the perfect environment for our young athletes to engage with the greatest players from clubs and academies around the world, honing their skills and improving their readiness for major international competitions.” Tariq Al-Bahri, general manager of the AJP, said: “The AJP events in the UAE along with our 150 international championships are gaining greater support as they continue to improve the players’ skills, career growth, and offer rigorous competitions among the participants. “These will have a significant impact on the UAE and the capital Abu Dhabi’s capability to solidify its status as the global sporting hub and a much-sought-after destination for champions from around the world,” he added. The competitions will feature boys and girls in infant (grey, yellow, and orange) and junior (grey, yellow, orange, and green) divisions on March 17, the first day of the event. On Saturday, the action will continue with bouts for the boys and girls in teen and youth (blue and purple), men’s master one (blue, purple, brown, and black) and master two (blue, purple, brown, and black) divisions. Men and women contestants will compete in amateur (blue) and professional (purple, brown, and black) divisions on Sunday.