DUBAI: The Indonesian Investment Forum kicked off on Thursday in Dubai, the Emirates News Agency reported. The two-day event aimed to explore opportunities to attract foreign direct investment and expand markets for export-oriented products. It was hosted by Bank Indonesia in partnership with KJRI Dubai, the Indonesian Embassy in Abu Dhabi, the Indonesia Investment Promotion Center and the Indonesian Trade Promotion Center. Titled “Unlocking Indonesia’s Potential,” the forum included presentations of several investment project opportunities, an “Indonesian night” that featured a modest fashion show and an exhibition from the Indonesian Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Exhibition. In his speech, Bank Indonesia Governor Perry Warjiyo outlined three key reasons to invest in his country. “First, Indonesia has shown the best post-pandemic economic performance. Economic fundamentals in Indonesia are solid, with optimized digitalization. Indonesia has monetary and financial stability, which is why circumstance is good for investment,” Warjiyo said. “Second, strong national economic policy. With a strong leadership, Indonesia has an agile government policy, including sound fiscal and monetary coordination,” he said. “Thus, the state revenue and expenditure budget is considered relatively optimal to dampen emerging economic shocks. This will further facilitate trade and investment. “In addition, the government continues to institute structural transformation of the real sector through mining and agricultural downstreaming, as well as the green and inclusive economy. “Third, Bank Indonesia supports investment with policies, using a pro-stability and pro-growth policy mix to support a conducive investment climate. This includes, for example, policy incentives for banks to channel financing to priority sectors as well as support MSMEs development and digitalized them, while BI also promotes integrated, interoperable and interconnected payment systems for greater convenience. “Moving forward, cross-border payment transactions will become simpler through cross-border payments, local currency transactions and the digital rupiah,” he said.