DUBAI: Danish model Helena Christensen and Czech model and actress Eva Herzigova this week wore bespoke sustainable looks by Saudi designers as they attended the Vanity Fair Oscars After-Party in a move supported by AlUla Creates, it was revealed on Tuesday afternoon. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle Herzigova wore a peach-colored organza own from designer Arwa Al-Ammari’s brand ArAm, while Christensen wore a white tulle dress by Abeer Oraif, who alongside her sister Alia Oraif have demi-couture label named Atelier Hekayat. A post shared by Atelier Hekayat (@atelierhekayat)  The designers worked alongside British designer Emilia Wickstead, who leant her experience and production support to bring the their visions to life, creating looks ready for the red carpet. Al-Ammari, who attended the Oscars, said her dress for Herzigova was inspired by the historical tombs of AlUla, the incense roads and the curves and lines in the stones and the desert. “AlUla is a land of an extraordinary human and natural heritage. Getting inspired by this magical place to design a dress that tells part of our story, reflecting on heritage and showing it to the world during one of the most prestigious fashion and film events of all time in LA is a milestone in my career,” she wrote on her Instagram Stories.   The designers were part of AlUla Creates, a platform designed to nurture creativity and empower future generations in film, art and fashion. “It is an honor to be part of the AlUla Creates program from Film AlUla, where last night at Hollywood’s biggest night — the Vanity Fair Oscars 2023 party — my bespoke designs was worn by Eva Herzigova,” Al-Ammari added. Meanwhile, the Oraif sisters wrote on Instagram: “We are proud and happy to be part of the AlUla Creates program where last night… our bespoke design was worn by Helena Christensen.” The designers said the dress is inspired by the midnight sky of AlUla and made from upcycled tulle “that’s walked through the sands of this beautiful place.” The launch is part of a year-round program that will allow new female filmmakers and creatives to collaborate with leading industry professionals and access development funds to create and share their work. The first phase partners with The British Fashion Council, Saudi film star Mila Al-Zahrani, Kloss Films founder Alec Maxwell and fashion icons Helena Christensen and Eva Herzigova as ambassadors to champion the long-term mission of the platform.