RIYADH: A flag gallery, Ardah dancing and choral recitals are among the highlights of celebrations in Riyadh’s Al-Safat Square as the Kingdom celebrates its first Saudi Flag Day. The three-day festival, organized by the Ministry of Culture, also features theater performances as the Kingdom takes pride in its history and culture. “Celebrating Flag Day is an affirmation of pride in our national identity and in (the flag’s) historical symbolism that is of great significance and deep meaning, King Salman tweeted, adding that the national standard “embodies our (values) and is considered a source of pride in our history.” Celebrations in front of the historic Masmak Fortress continue until March 13 from 5 p.m. to 11 p.m. Shouq Aldossari from Riyadh and her family were among many visitors to the square over the weekend. “The location is nice, with the music and Ardah the kids really had fun,” Aldossari told Arab News. “I brought my three daughters and my son, they all dressed up in dresses and thobe and brought their flags. “We wanted to do something fun with the kids and we heard about this event and decided to come and see it.” Aldossari added that she hoped Flag Day celebrations would become a family tradition each year. Visitors start the celebration by taking a tour through the Saudi flag gallery, which highlights three centuries of changing designs with information on stages of development, history and protocols for its use. The Ministry of Culture in support of the Quality of Life Program hosted an assortment of cultural activities including children’s activities, a performance from the Saudi National Orchestra and National Choir, a military show, and traditional Ardah performances along with a projected laser show displayed on Masmak Fortress. Celebrations were also taking place in other parts of the capital including Boulevard Riyadh City and Boulevard World where families gathered to watch fireworks, drone shows and hoist their flags in the air in celebration of the day. Across Riyadh, flags were displayed in many areas of the city from roads, screens, shops, and malls. The celebrations of the Saudi Flag Day initially began following a royal decree by King Salman on March 1. The date of March 11 was chosen because of its significance in 1937 when King Abdulaziz authorized the format of the Saudi flag representing the Kingdom’s beliefs of monotheism, justice, strength, development, and prosperity.