JEDDAH: Catie Munnings and Timmy Hansen of Andretti Altawkilat Extreme E team have landed in Jeddah and are looking forward to an improved performance this year as season three of the all-electric rally championship takes place in NEOM on March 11 and 12. For the latest updates, follow us on Twitter @ArabNewsSport The pair joined the team’s new Saudi sponsor Altawkilat in Jeddah for a press conference to unveil the partnership with local and international media, as well as motorsport fans in Saudi Arabia, in attendance. On their third consecutive season of the off-road electric racing series, British driver Munnings said: “This year’s edition has a new track and we are heading to NEOM to test it, especially as it is located on the beach. “However, we have worked hard during the winter in preparation for this year’s championship. “The team is excited for a new race and for the chance to prove our pace out on the new track,” she added. Her Swedish co-driver Hansen was also excited for the new season. He said: “We learned from our participation last year and feel great to be back here in Saudi Arabia for a new round. The whole team is hoping to start the season with a good result.” The cooperation between Altawkilat and Andretti team is an expanded partnership that goes back to the first season, which kicked off in 2021. Altawkilat chief executive officer, Mohammed Abduljawad, said: “It reflects the goals of Extreme E championship to form a global Saudi alliance committed to raising awareness and positive action to protect the future of our planet. “We are privileged to be associated with the team starting season three and hope to play an active role in bringing awareness for the use of alternate energy sources to reduce air pollution and the need to protect the planet from the effects of global warming,” he added. Traditionally, the Extreme E Championship would have one main race per weekend as it travels the globe raising awareness of how climate change is affecting different remote locations. By adding an extra race at every weekend, the series can double the on-track action without any significant impact on its carbon footprint.