RIYADH: The third “Diriyah Home of Saudi Ardah” initiative, which teaches young people between the ages of 12 and 17 about the history of the Kingdom’s traditional folk dance and how to perform it, has begun. The event is organized by the Diriyah Gate Development Authority, which said it aims to “establish the historical value of Al-Ardah dance, boosting the participants’ pride in their authentic identity by connecting them to their rich heritage.”   Historic At-Turaif district is hosting the activities, which began on Thursday, during which four groups of young people will take part in a three-day course, at the end of which the five most proficient participants from each group will be chosen to take part in a final round. Ardah, which is on the UNESCO List of Intangible Heritage, is a sword dance and poems are traditionally recited when it is performed which, according to experts, have deep meaning. The harmony between the dancer and the movement of the sword is designed to represent national pride and honor.   Observers can watch the progress of the participants during the event through an online streaming site, including a 15-minute ‎demonstration of Ardah.‎ “These activities aim to consolidate this ancient heritage art in the minds of young people and educate them on this authentic cultural heritage,” the authority said. It added that it seeks to “deepen the national symbolism of the Saudi Ardah and enhance its impact on the general conscience of the Kingdom’s youth.”   The two previous Diriyah Home of Saudi Ardah‎ initiatives took place in 2019 and 2021. More than 200 young people took part and more than 26 of the best students were honored during the closing ceremonies. Ardah remains popular among Saudis because of its festive nature and its use of accompanying poems that inspire national pride and glory. Performances traditionally begin with chants, which in the old days were intended to boost the courage of warriors preparing to face an enemy. Dancers dressed in traditional costumes and holding swords then move in time to the beat of drums. The initiative‎ is organized in partnership with the National Center for Saudi Ardah, to help preserve the legacy of the traditional art form for future generations. 