DUBAI: Queen Rania of Jordan took to Instagram on Wednesday to share a glimpse of the family’s pre-wedding henna party for Princess Iman bint Abdullah II, including a shot with Crown Prince Hussein bin Abdullah II’s Saudi fiancée Rajwa Khalid Al-Saif. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle “So much love in one room! With friends and family at Iman’s Henna party yesterday,” Queen Rania captioned the post, which featured photographs of the bride-to-be as well as a photo of Al-Saif, who will marry Jordan’s crown prince on June 1, in a pink-and-orange ensemble. A post shared by Queen Rania Al Abdullah (@queenrania)  Before that, the queen posted a picture of herself late on Tuesday adjusting a gold-and-white belt around her daughter’s waist as part of the mother and daughter's preparation for the party. It was the same belt Queen Rania wore for her own wedding to King Abdullah II in 1993. A post shared by Queen Rania Al Abdullah (@queenrania) In the picture, the queen is wearing a casual black T-shirt and khaki trousers, while the bride-to-be is dressed in an embroidered white dress by Jordanian Palestinian fashion designer Reema Dahbour. "Finishing touches before Iman’s Henna party tonight,” the queen wrote on Instagram. The princess and her fiancé, Jameel Alexander Thermiotis, will wed on March 12. A post shared by Royal Hashemite Court (@rhcjo) “The countdown has begun and preparations have started for the Jordanian Royal wedding this weekend,” the designer posted on Instagram. “Queen Rania is putting the final touches of the bridal henna party look for Princess Iman, who will be wearing @reemadahbour design in her pre-wedding celebrations. We can’t wait to see the final look!” Princess Iman is the eldest daughter of King Abdullah II and Queen Rania Al-Abdullah of Jordan while Thermiotis is a managing partner at a New York based Venture Capital fund. He was born in Caracas, Venezuela, in 1994, but is of Greek descent, according to Hello magazine.