DHAHRAN: The Literature, Publishing and Translation Commission is set to launch a new initiative called Literature Everywhere to improve access to literary works across the Kingdom. Mohammed Hasan Alwan, CEO of the commission, told Arab News he hoped the initiative would make literary content more accessible. “Through innovative means, this initiative aims to make literary content available everywhere, such as waiting areas in public places, airport terminals, malls, coffeehouses, universities, playgrounds, public gardens and beaches. Thus, making literature more accessible to our society through various shapes and channels,” he said.   The initiative will focus on making multiple forms of literature accessible to the public. These will include podcasts, audiobooks, poetry, short stories, comics and manga. “The Literature Everywhere program expects to contribute to raising cultural awareness directly through the project’s diverse activations (Literary Cloud, Literary Partner and Short Stories), targeting different segments of society, focusing on their sustainability factor while also empowering the private and third sector to contribute,” Alwan said. Banners and posters will feature QR codes so that everyone can access literature in public facilities that have a waiting area.   Literature Cloud provides literary audio content. By scanning the QR code and choosing a preferred duration, users will be able to listen to a variety of podcasts of up to 45 minutes in length. Although most of the content is in Arabic, the program does include some English-language productions, including Arab News’ “The Mayman Show” podcast hosted by Hussam Al-Mayman. The show features celebrity guests from the worlds of film, TV and sport, as well as discussions on Saudi Arabia’s cultural, social, tourism and entertainment sectors.   Also included is geologist Hussain Al-Ismail’s “Kotobiology” podcast, which he launched after being told he had a good speaking voice. “Not only did I love to talk about my passions and hobbies (especially books), but I was also aware of the lack of personal critical readings in the local scene, at least in the way I imagined such readings should be. So I took it upon myself to fill the void and produce something that tackles this issue,” he said. “The initiative arrived at the right time. Within the immense cultural transformations initiated by Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman’s Vision 2030, there was a need to step up the literary scene and its contribution to society.   “Literature Everywhere is one right step toward redefining what it means to experience literature in our daily lives. That is, instead of restricting literature production and consumption to certain classes as was the case, it is about time to re-imagine it as part of the lived experience that shapes (and is shaped by) a growing quality of life,” Al-Ismail said. The Writers and Readers Festival, held recently in multiple cities in the Eastern Province, had a Literature Cloud corner, with a recording setup that allowed the public to experience what it is like to record a podcast. People were able to record themselves and get an instant copy of the session. The booth was also used for interviews with authors, poets and other special guests. Literary Partner is the second program in the initiative. Designed specifically for partnerships with cafes across the Kingdom, the collaboration will involve outlets promoting literary works and holding events in an accessible and innovative way. Cafes are encouraged to apply to become a Literary Partner and help spread cultural awareness and highlight the works of Saudi literature authors and contributors. Book clubs, events and literature celebrations, such as Arabic Language Day, are some of the events cafes can hold under the program. The third program is called Short Stories, which will provide free access to short stories via QR codes. An experimental phase was launched in 2020 in airports across the Kingdom. Public, private and third sectors are all able to partner the Literature Everywhere initiative. “Literature, with its channels and genres, has been developing since the beginning of time. The theatrical, performing and rhetorical arts are examples of this development,” Alwan said. “Therefore, we as a commission and through The Literature Everywhere’s different projects aim to keep pace with this development by utilizing digital resources to make literature readily accessible.” 