DUBAI: Rising Lebanese designer Hussein Bazaza showcased his latest collection at Dubai Fashion Week on Monday, treating the well-heeled front row to a colorful feast for the eyes. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle Known for his love of vibrant hues and use of unexpected materials, Bazaza’s latest line was marked by oversized coats in glittering materials, textured skirts and paillettes galore. Standout pieces included a textured weave coat in an ombre colorway, descending from sunset orange to twilight teal, and a hooded dress in dusty pink that served up the season’s favorite trend — the hood — with Bazaza’s distinctive offbeat take, with the hood extending up from the dress’s bodice rather than its collar.   The designer previously spoke to Arab News about his humble beginnings. “In 2014, I created my professional brand and I was part of Fashion Forward Dubai, where I started showing my collections. The Arab World started to know more about my brand and (about) me as a designer,” Bazaza said. Bazaza’s label has a unique take on fashion, he believes. “I have a special way in mixing colors, mixing fabrics and textures together. I love to combine between haute-couture and ready-to-wear.”   The designer’s love for couture fashion inspired him to create mash ups of glamorous red carpet styles and more effortless looks. “I did not know people would love this combination. People started referring to this style as Hussein Bazaza’s style so that was something I am proud of,” he said of his sporty chic aesthetic. Other highlights from day four of Dubai Fashion Week included a showcase by regional label BLSSD, Ivodia London, Francesca Liberatore and Slimi Studio. Slimi Studio’s monochromatic collection featured ensembles in white, black and silver, including oversized jackets paired with cargo skirts and exaggerated, army-style pockets on a number of items. Italian label Francesca Liberatore showed off a toned-down collection of button-down shirts paired with workwear-style skirts and pinstripe dresses. Slinky sleepwear-inspired dresses were also offered up in a line that featured geometrical sequin work on a number of form-fitting cocktail looks. “Always an intense moment!” the designer posted on Instagram after the show.