DUBAI: Visitors to the United Kingdom from the six Gulf countries and Jordan will be the first to benefit from the UK’s new Electronic Travel Authorisation (ETA) scheme, with Qatari visitors eligible to apply in October 2023. The service will launch in GCC countries and Jordan ahead of a worldwide expansion in 2024, the statement issued on Thursday by the UK government said. The early application for an ETA will enable visitors to benefit from “smooth and efficient travel” the statement explained. Adding: “The application process will be quick, light touch and entirely digital with most visitors applying via a mobile app and receiving a swift decision on their application.” The cost of the ETA will be in line with similar international schemes, and individuals will be able to make multiple visits to the UK over a two-year period. The statement went on to explain that the scheme would further strengthen the UK’s border, by ensuring what it described as “robust security checks” were conducted on every visitor before they travel. As part of the application process, people will need to provide biometric details and answer a set of what the statement described as “suitability questions”, ensuring that dangerous individuals are prevented from entering the country. “Strengthening our border remains one of the Government’s top priorities,” Immigration Minister Robert Jenrick said. “ETAs will enhance our border security by increasing our knowledge about those seeking to come to the UK and preventing the arrival of those who pose a threat,” he added. “It will also improve travel for legitimate visitors, with those visiting from Gulf Cooperation Council states being among the first to benefit.” After the initial launch for Qatar, visitors from the rest of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) states and Jordan can apply for an ETA from February 2024. The new scheme will replace the current Electronic Visa Waiver (EVW) Scheme which requires visitors to the UK from GCC states to pay a higher cost for a single-use visit. FCDO Minister of State for the Middle East, Lord (Tariq) Ahmad of Wimbledon said: “I am delighted that our partners in the Middle East will be the first to benefit from the UK’s new scheme. “Making travel smoother and more efficient for nationals coming from the GCC and Jordan will boost business and tourism links between the UK and the region.” By the end of 2024, ETAs will be a requirement worldwide for visitors who do not need a visa for short stays, including those visiting from Europe. Visitors from Europe, and other nations such as America and Australia do not currently need to make any form of application to visit to the UK, however this will be changing with the introduction of ETAs.