RIYADH: Saudi Arabia’s Cabinet on Tuesday held its weekly meeting, chaired by Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, at Irqah Palace in Riyadh. During the meeting, the Council of Ministers praised the Kingdom’s recent participation in a number of global forums, the Saudi Press Agency reported. The crown prince briefed ministers on the content and outcomes of two meetings he held with the presidents of Eritrea and Mozambique, which reviewed relations and cooperation between the Kingdom and the east African countries. The Cabinet also reviewed several regional and international issues, reiterating the commitment made by the Kingdom during the 40th meeting of the Council of Arab Interior Ministers to strengthen security cooperation, step up efforts to combat drug use, and address any issues that posed a threat to pan-Arab security. In addition, discussions took place on Saudi Arabia’s participation at the G20 Foreign Ministers’ meeting in New Delhi, where emphasis was placed on the importance of taking collective action to address global challenges and foster dialogue and peace to make the world a safer and more prosperous place for all. Members pointed out that the inauguration of the headquarters of the Regional Center for Climate Change in the Kingdom was a part of national and international initiatives to protect the environment and address climate issues in a way that builds the knowledge base required to encourage adaptation to climate change, reduce its effects, and achieve sustainability, in line with the goals of Vision 2030. The Cabinet hailed the first wave of projects supported by the Private Sector Partnership Reinforcement Program, Shareek, totaling more than SR192 billion ($51.15 billion), affirming that the development represented a significant step toward the program’s goals of fostering private sector investment, boosting domestic content, and raising the country’s gross domestic product. Ministers noted that Flag Day, which falls on March 11 this year, was an opportunity to highlight the significance of the national flag throughout the history of the Saudi state, beginning with its founding in 1727, as well as its importance as a symbol of cohesion, harmony, and national unity. Meanwhile, the Cabinet approved an agreement to establish the Saudi-Algerian Supreme Coordination Council, and a memorandum of understanding for cooperation between the Saudi Ministry of Justice and the Attorney General’s Office and the Ministry of Justice of The Gambia. It also approved an MoU for cooperation in the field of tourism between the Saudi Ministry of Tourism and the Kuwaiti Ministry of Information and Culture, and a memorandum of cooperation between the Saudi and Chinese education ministries to teach the Chinese language. The ministers approved the Kingdom’s accession to the Convention for the Protection of Producers of Phonograms Against Unauthorized Duplication of their Phonograms. Another MoU was passed between the Saudi Oversight and Anti-Corruption Authority and the Thai National Anti-Corruption Commission in the field of preventing and combating corruption, along with an agreement with the Yemeni government in the field of the works of the Saudi Program for the Development and Reconstruction of Yemen inside Yemen. The Cabinet gave the green light too for the establishment of a program to attract international companies to headquarter in the Kingdom under the supervision of the Royal Commission for Riyadh City, and accrediting the two final accounts of the Madinah Region Development Authority for two previous fiscal years.