ALULA: Film AlUla has announced the launch of a platform to empower new and emerging female filmmakers and creatives to produce stories set in AlUla. AlUla Creates, part of a year-round program, is currently building the infrastructure and global network of mentorships and other resources to support new female Saudi storytellers, pairing them with accomplished writers, directors and producers, BroadcastPro reported. The program’s first phase includes a partnership with the British Fashion Council, Saudi actor Mila Al-Zahrani, Kloss Films founder Alec Maxwell, and fashion icons Helena Christensen and Eva Herzigova as ambassadors to support the long-term mission of the platform. AlUla Creates is part of Film AlUla’s wider strategy to develop a film-friendly ecosystem, which includes a purpose-built studio and digital creative hub complex in AlUla, as the film industry in Saudi Arabia continues to grow. The program supports the socio-economic development of the AlUla region, with investment in jobs, training and the creative arts across a range of disciplines. Film AlUla promotes the region as an international filming destination, encouraging efficient filmmaking whilst respecting the natural environment, resources, and cultural significance. “More than 70 percent of the population in Saudi Ariba is under 30 with the fastest growing cinema audience in the world. There is a buzz about the screen sector in homes, schools, and boardrooms,” said Charlene Deleon-Jones, executive director at Film AlUla. “Spending time in the beautiful landscape of AlUla, the streets of Jeddah or homes in Riyadh it is impossible not to take note of the fashion, art warmth, vibrancy and intellect of this generation,” she continued. “AlUla creates is part of this picture providing opportunities for creative development and collaborations across sectors and borders.” Alec Maxwell, director at KLOSS Films said: “It feels exciting to work with an all-female crew on this project and contribute to the creative future of AlUla.” Enter