LONDON: Netflix’s “Next in Fashion” is back for a second season, starring American supermodel Gigi Hadid and British TV personality Tan France as co-hosts. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The reality show, which aired on March 3, features 12 promising designers competing in weekly design challenges to win $200,000 and a chance to debut their collection on e-commerce platform Rent the Runway.  A post shared by Next In Fashion (@nextinfashion)  The new season boasts an ensemble of fashion royalty appearing alongside France and Hadid as guest judges. It features A-list designers, such as Donatella Versace, Isabel Marant and Olivier Rousteing, as well as powerful dressers, including Bella Hadid, Emma Chamberlain and Hailey Bieber. The lineup certainly supports the title’s authority on future trends in the industry. Producers have avoided chaos and drama, while showmanship is replaced with sportsmanship. Rather than being pitted against one another, contestants cheer on their fellow designers and exit with grace after being eliminated.  A post shared by Next In Fashion (@nextinfashion)  The judges display a compassionate model of mentorship, offering emotional support along the journey. “Next in Fashion” signals the end of the era of brutality and scathing criticism pioneered by Simon Cowell, Gordon Ramsay and Tyra Banks, and returns viewers to a time when reality TV was still very much organic. It is both interesting and aesthetically pleasing to see the shifting synergy between designers’ signature fashion styles translated onto the runway. Artistry and innovation appear to exert the most influence on the judges’ decisions. However, as the battle boils down to the brightest visionaries, the details in construction could make or break a designer’s position in the competition.  A post shared by Next In Fashion (@nextinfashion)  For Hadid, who often displays pride in her Palestinian heritage, the show is an opportunity to become better acquainted with her humor, charisma and warmth. It is yet another win for the Arab community, as we celebrate a face proudly representing us. The show’s only flaw is that all its contestants are based in the US, while its first season included an array of international designers. This was an unexpected move given that the show’s previous winner, Minju Kim, is from South Korea. And while launching the winner’s collection on a rental e-commerce platform makes it more accessible and affordable for viewers, this too is only the case if you live in the US. Despite its overall triumph, this season was out of step with the wider pool of talent creating what’s ‘Next in Fashion,’ and out of reach with its global audience who might want to wear it. 