DUBAI: Highlights from day two of the first-ever iteration of Dubai Fashion Week include a stellar showcase by Lebanese upcycling label Emergency Room, as well as runway presentations by 17-year-old Emirati designer Roudha Jamal, Indonesian designer Temma Prasetio and menswear brand The House of Victor. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle Designer Erique Ritter, founder of streetwear brand Emergency Room, showcased a range of menswear and womenswear options as the label celebrated its 5-year anniversary.   The new collection was titled “Home Sweet Home” and featured upcycled denim, knitwear and evening dresses. The color palette ranged from white to shades of grey and black while standout pieces included face masks retracing the brand’s story, an embroidered denim jacket and men’s shirts made from deadstock fabric. Ritter named his label Emergency Room because “it started with the idea or the feeling that there was an emergency in fashion,” the designer said in a previous interview with Arab News. “We decided to call it Emergency Room because we were going to truly do things in a way that is environmentally friendly, that is ethical and that is respectful of the environment,” Ritter added. “We really need to change and think of everything and change the way we do things,” he urged fashion lovers and designers during the interview. Emergency Room’s show at Dubai Fashion Week featured visuals by animator Nina Abou Zeid and a soundtrack including various mashups of iconic song “I Want To Know What Love Is.” Meanwhile, teen Emirati designer Jamal, who founded fashion label The Whales at the age of 15, showed off a collection marked by hues of blue, white and beige. Marine-inspired prints and ombre color gradients popped up throughout the collection.   For its part, House of Victor’s displayed an array of vibrant colors as oversized jackets, puffed coats, and distorted proportions lent the collection a surrealist air.   Finally, Prasetio drew inspiration from the Nusa Tenggara Timur, the southernmost province of Indonesia famous for its exquisite hand-weaving techniques and rich cultural heritage. His collection of bomber jackets, oversized mesh shirts and belt-waisted coats embroidered with ethnic patterns was a celebration of Indonesian culture that earned a warm round of applause from the well-heeled front row in Dubai.   