ABU DHABI: Egyptian Palestinian actress May Calamawy, fresh off her success as the first Egyptian superhero on TV with Disney+ series “Moon Knight,” was in attendance at the Middle East Film and Comic Con in Abu Dhabi to talk about her role in Marvel series and American comedy-drama “Ramy.” For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle   Calamawy told Arab News: “Oh my gosh, when I found out I got (the ‘Moon Knight’ part), I cried. Because I was so stressed out in the period leading up to the audition and the chemistry test, and then waiting to find out, that when I found out, it was such a relief. I was really happy. And then I just got scared. I didn’t know what was gonna happen.” Calamawy also took a moment to recognise the impact of playing Layla, also know as the Scarlet Scarab, in “Moon Knight,” which starred Oscar Isaac in the lead role. “I have to say, the fandom I’ve experienced mainly (is) on Instagram. And it’s so sweet. It really, like, means a lot to me when people reach out. I wish there was an Arab actor that I could look up to when I was really young. And there were many, but maybe in Hollywood, more so. And, so, I hope I can inspire people.” A post shared by May Calamawy (@calamawy) Playing a superhero does not come easy, of course. “I thought I was fit — I wasn’t. I was training two hours a day every day for two months, with a stunt team, and then I would go train for an hour with a trainer. And I was broken in the beginning. But then it’s really cool when you start to notice that you can do more and more,” said the 36-year-old. When asked about her work with creator and actor Ramy Youssef on his seminal TV series “Ramy,” Calamawy said: “Ramy is like my brother and one of my really good friends, so it’s very surreal to work with him. I’ve been spoiled, because for me, I’m like, ‘Oh, this is normal.’ You work with someone, they’re like your family. A post shared by May Calamawy (@calamawy) “Everyone on set, we’ve become a family together, we work together. And then we just want to go out and eat after together, and like hanging out all the time. It’s fun, because you just understand each other. And sharing the culture and faith also has something to do with that. There’s an ease and we hear each other, and we collaborate with one another. And that’s just the kind of atmosphere I always want to work in.”