ABU DHABI: Young mixed martial arts talent from the UAE on Saturday put on a strong showing at the fourth Youth MMA Championship at Mubadala Arena in Zayed Sports City, the competition capped off with Saeed Al-Hosani’s victory against Mansoor Alsayed in the main event 70.3 kilograms class. For the latest updates, follow us on Twitter @ArabNewsSport The championship, which saw as many as 40 Emirati youth taking to the octagon, is perceived to be the perfect precursor for the Youth MMA World Championship in August. The tournament featured a fight card of 30 bouts in a variety of weight divisions. Abdel Moneim Al-Hashemi, chairman of the UAE Jiu-Jitsu and Mixed Martial Arts Federation, said the Youth MMA Championship solidified Abu Dhabi’s status as one of the top destinations for combat sports. He said: “The large participation in Youth MMA Championship four demonstrates the presence of a talent pool that is capable of competing for the UAE national team and raising the nation’s flag on international podiums.” Mohammed Al-Hosani, a member of the federation’s mixed martial arts committee, said: “This is our fourth MMA event, and event after event, we notice a big improvement in our young fighters as they get more acquainted with the rules that they need to fight under, and this is all in preparation for the Youth MMA World Championship. “We have more than 40 Emiratis and another 20 Arabs. Hence, this competition could be regarded as an Arab or regional championship. “It is crucial to make sure that our players have the opportunity to engage with top athletes from all over the world in order to provide them with the experience they need prior to competing in the world championship.” Ali Al-Najjar, the UAE champion who competed in the youth C 40 kg division, was crowned after winning the championship bout against competitor Rakan Al-Yammahi. He said: “Every athlete dreams of winning the first position, especially early in their careers. Securing the top spot would be a fantastic motivation for me to keep working out and get more experience. I'll do everything I can to maintain this achievement.” Sultan Al-Ghusain defeated Salim Al-Shamsi in the decisive match to win the youth A 65.8 kg division. “I see today’s accomplishment as a springboard for even greater successes as I get ready for the forthcoming world championship in Abu Dhabi,” he said.