DUBAI: The Saint Laurent team can’t seem to get enough of French Algerian model Loli Bahia. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The model, who was named one of the brand’s beauty ambassadors in January, walked the runway for the French label, which also goes by Yves Saint Laurent, at Paris Fashion Week.   Saint Laurent designer Anthony Vaccarello drew his Paris Fashion Week audience into a dark, chandelier-lined runway, sending out a sensual line-up of night-club-ready eveningwear derived from office classics — blazers, pinstripes and pencil skirts. Bahia donned a grey pencil skirt with a slit in the center and an oversized leather jacket. A grey scarf was wrapped around her chest. She wore aviator glasses and had her hair in a slick-back bun. The show also featured a series of sharp-shouldered suit jackets — extra wide, double-breasted — worn over skimpy silk tops and slender, knee-skimming skirts. Bahia and her fellow models marched down a carpeted catwalk on spiky, pointy-toed sling-backs, some with scarves trailing behind, as the styles moved between airy, feminine bow blouses and more assertive masculine styles, like hulking bomber jackets and long, tailored coats in red plaid.   The set, which included low-hanging bronze chandeliers, evoked the ballroom of the Intercontinental Hotel, the label’s favored venue for haute couture collections in the late 1970s through the start of the 2000s. But set designers transported the well-heeled crowd into a “radically contemporary black-box setting,” according to the label’s show notes. The show was attended by A-list celebrities, including Dua Lipa, Zoë Kravitz, Olivia Wilde, Salma Hayek, Charlize Theron and more. At just 20, Bahia is quickly shaping up to be one of the most in-demand models in the industry, becoming a runway fixture in just a few months after a busy Spring 2022 fashion season where she walked in 65 shows.  A post shared by YSL Beauty Official (@yslbeauty) The catwalk star has strutted down the runways of a host of prestigious labels, including Louis Vuitton, Chanel, Givenchy, Lanvin and Valentino, to name a few. This year alone, she walked for Fendi and Prada at Milan Fashion Week, Michael Kors and Tory Burch at New York Fashion Week and Schiaparelli at Paris Haute Couture Week. Bahia, who is signed to Women Management Paris, made her runway debut in 2020 at Louis Vuitton’s Fall 2021 show.