ABU DHABI: Special Olympics UAE has concluded its second training camp in Al Ain in preparation for the Special Olympics World Games Berlin 2023, taking place June 17-25.For the latest updates, follow us on Twitter @ArabNewsSport
Emirati athletes will take part in 20 different sporting competitions at the event.
The Special Olympics UAE delegation is one of the largest from the MENA region, comprising 75 athletes with intellectual and developmental disabilities and 32 unified partners.
Athletes held various training sessions during the camp across different sports, including beach volleyball, volleyball, basketball, athletics, equestrian, roller-skating, table tennis, powerlifting, swimming, badminton, bowling and cycling.
The squad held its first training camp earlier this year and has taken part in several competitions already during 2023 in preparation for the upcoming World Games, including Yas Triathlon, Third National Sailing Camp, DIBS — Citizen Open Bowling Tournament and the Emirates Swimming Cup.
Talal Al-Hashemi, national director of Special Olympics UAE, said: “We are excited to see our athletes gear up for their upcoming participation in the Special Olympics World Games Berlin 2023. We are proud of their progress, and their resolve and commitment to best represent the UAE, which has the largest participating delegation from the MENA region. We started the preparation and training sessions months ago and continue to provide all support needed for our athletes to complement their enthusiasm and strong can-do attitude.
“Our participation in the Special Olympics World Games Berlin 2023 underscores our journey toward promoting an inclusive community, which accelerated with the hosting of the Special Olympics World Games Abu Dhabi 2019,” he added.
“We will continue the momentum during the Special Olympics World Games Berlin 2023 and will represent the UAE as one of the biggest supporters of inclusion and People of Determination globally.”
In collaboration with the National Ambulance, Special Olympics UAE recently held several training sessions under the “Train Safely” initiative. The scheme provides all the Special Olympics UAE staff with medical and first-aid skills, strengthening the delegation’s health and safety credentials and making it one of the safest groups taking part in the Special Olympics World Games Berlin 2023.
In 2022, Special Olympics UAE achieved many global victories, including 16 medals at the Invitational Games Malta 2022, and 16 medals during the group’s participation in the Special Olympics Austria National Games 2022. For the latest updates, follow us on Twitter @ArabNewsSport