RIYADH: Hosting Expo 2030 ‘fits perfectly’ with Saudi Arabia’s rapid development, said the Bureau International des Expositions (BIE) representatives as they concluded their five-day inquiry mission to evaluate Saudi Arabia’s candidacy for hosting Expo 2030. During the five days, the BIE delegation met with Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, ministers, senior officials and representatives from the private and social sectors to discuss Riyadh’s feasibility and viability to host the global fair.
They also reviewed the technical aspects of Riyadh’s candidacy, reported the Saudi Press Agency (SPA).
Dimitri Kerkentzes, secretary general of the BIE, said the Kingdom has “everything needed” to host a successful Expo 2030.
“We have seen a project strong from the very top, from His Royal Highness, all the way down to government, from every minister and every member of Saudi Arabia that we have met and have spoken to, all have an incredible support for this project,” said Kerkentzes during a press conference held on Sunday.
He praised the country’s infrastructure that would help make Expo 2030 a successful event.
“The Expo project fits in perfectly with the developmental ideas of this city and this country. We see that the project is part of a natural expansion of Riyadh towards the new airport, with the metro line that is already built and soon-to-be in operation. It serves perfectly the needs of such an Expo, which for us plays an important role in knowing that the infrastructure is something that is already here, and ready to be used, should [Saudi Arabia] be chosen in November to host the Expo in 2030.”
Fahd Abdulmohsen Al-Rasheed, CEO of Royal Commission for Riyadh City, said the Kingdom has met all technical requirements and garnered international support to host the Expo 2030, which has boosted its candidature.
He vowed that Riyadh “will present an exceptional edition of the Riyadh Expo 2030” with an expected footfall of 40 million site visits and one billion visitors via the Metaverse, a first in the history of World Expo exhibitions.
“We are happy to reaffirm the readiness of the Kingdom and the enthusiasm of its citizens and residents to host this global event.”
Other BIE delegations are scheduled to visit competing cities in Odesa, Ukraine (March 20-24), Busan, South Korea (April 3-7) and Rome, Italy (April 17-21), before the final vote to choose the host city takes place in November.