JEDDAH: More than 850 businesswomen, entrepreneurs, delegates of private companies, representatives of organizations that support development projects, and national and regional banks are set to discuss ways to empower women when they gather in Jeddah for the 5th edition of Gulf Businesswomen Forum on March 15. The two-day event will be hosted by the Federation of Gulf Cooperation Council Chambers in cooperation with the Federation of Saudi Chambers and the Jeddah Chamber of Commerce and Industry. The forum, held under the slogan “The Gulf woman: Between empowerment and leadership,” aims to enhance the role of businesswomen in the chambers of the Gulf Cooperation Council countries.
In addition, there would be exchange of ideas in the field of strengthening the status of women, empowerment, innovation and entrepreneurship. Addressing a press conference, Hassan bin Mujib Al-Huwaizi, president of the Federation of Saudi Chambers, said that the forum will tackle issues related to the empowerment of women as an active and influential partner in the process of growth and development. For his part, Muhammad Youssef Naghi, chairman of the board of directors of the Jeddah Chamber, lauded the continuous work to empower women in the leadership fields and to enhance their role in various economic sectors. Commenting on the forum, Sarah Al-Ayed, a member of the board of directors of the Jeddah Chamber of Commerce, said, “It is an opportunity to exhibit the progress Saudi women have achieved under the wise leadership and the tremendous support of the government.” The forum includes four sessions. The first discusses the role of Gulf businesswomen in planning and economic development while the second reviews cooperation between Gulf businesswomen and the launch of joint initiatives.
On the other hand, the third session deals with the successes of Gulf women personalities in the world of finance and business while the fourth one reviews the growth of female entrepreneurship in Saudi Arabia.