RIYADH: The Saudi Organization for Chartered and Professional Accountants has launched an accounting hackathon to promote innovation in technical solutions in the sector. The initiative was announced during the International Conference on Accounting Education, which ended in Riyadh on Thursday. The event was organized by the Saudi Organization for Chartered and Professional Accountants under the title “Early Preparation for the Labor Market.” The conference was held under the patronage of the Saudi Minister of Commerce Majed Al-Qasabi, the organization’s chairman.   The conference discussed the role of education in developing the accounting profession. It also shed light on the profession and the promising opportunities it offers, in addition to reviewing and exchanging local and international best practices. It also discussed the latest international regulations and systems, transferring international experiences in the profession and benefiting from them, and highlighting the role of accounting education in formulating the outputs of accounting competencies that contribute to promoting economic growth. The conference witnessed the participation of several senior officials, academics, and experts locally and internationally, who are concerned and interested in the accounting profession. Among the participants were international bodies and organizations, relevant governmental and private agencies, local and international accounting education companies and institutions, members of bodies in the sector system, and specialized students from Saudi universities. The conference activities included eight dialogue sessions and 24 various workshops in which more than 80 speakers participated, and the signing of six cooperation agreements. The interactive theater accompanying the conference witnessed 11 professional meetings and dialogues with several experts in the field of accounting and auditing, in addition to presenting examples of success stories. More than 80 government entities, universities, companies and accounting education institutions took part in an accompanying exhibition. During the conference, the organization launched a number of initiatives to support the accounting and auditing profession and develop accounting competencies. During the conference, the Saudi Organization for Chartered and Professional Accountants announced the provision of 10 scholarships to the universities in the Kingdom, in order to enter the fellowship test to support and empower the human capabilities of citizens. 