RIYADH: The Saudi capital celebrated the upcoming Chinese New Year as part of Riyadh Season’s ongoing festivities. The celebration was hosted at Boulevard World’s Chinese pavilion on Saturday, Jan. 14, and opened with a ribbon-cutting ceremony amid cheering crowds. The event was attended by a large number of visitors, including the Chinese ambassador to the Kingdom, Chen Weiqing, Thai ambassador to the Kingdom, Darm Boontham, and his wife and other diplomats. Dancers performed traditional dragon and lion dances with bright red and yellow colors to attract good luck and fortune for the new year. The Chinese New Year is also known as the Lunar New Year or the Spring Festival. This year’s animal marks the transition from the tiger to the rabbit. The Spring Festival is the annual season of recovery and growth, and symbolizes the beginning of a new life. • The Chinese New Year is also known as the Lunar New Year or the Spring Festival. This year’s animal marks the transition from the tiger to the rabbit. The Spring Festival is the annual season of recovery and growth, and symbolizes the beginning of a new life. • Little Year, or the first phase, started off on Jan. 14, with preparations for the celebrations that will last until the Chinese New Year on Jan. 22. The Chinese community observes celebrations from New Year’s Eve until Feb. 1, followed by the Lantern Festival. Little Year, or the first phase, started off on Jan. 14, with preparations for the celebrations that will last until the Chinese New Year on Jan. 22. The Chinese community observes celebrations from New Year’s Eve until Feb. 1, followed by the Lantern Festival.   Moussa, who moved from China to Saudi Arabia, told Arab News: “During the preparations of the Chinese New Year, we have a reunion for family members and we come together to eat and celebrate.” Through this gesture, Saudi Arabia aims to promote cultural and artistic exchange and cooperation between the two countries and to enhance the Saudi people’s understanding of Chinese culture. Among the attendees was Yang Liqin, who also goes by Mariam, who told Arab News that this was her favorite celebration in Riyadh since she moved from China seven years ago.   Mariam explained: “I feel like I am in China and I am very excited and happy. Every Chinese person here is very thankful to the Saudi government for giving us the chance to show China and Chinese culture to the Arabs and foreigners who come (to Boulevard World).” Last year’s celebration of Chinese New Year was held in Boulevard Riyadh City, decorated with elements of Chinese culture. China has an ancient civilization and cultural heritage, and the Kingdom is the cradle of Islamic culture and history. The Silk Road linked the two civilizations together in the past and helped facilitate many contributions to humanity.  