DUBAI: Argentine model Georgina Rodriguez celebrated her 29th birthday in Riyadh on Friday with her partner, Portuguese footballer Cristiano Ronaldo, and their children. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The family was photographed at Armenian restaurant Lavash on The Boulevard. The model wore a white midi form-fitting dress, that was off the shoulder, and a pair of white heels. A post shared by LAVASH (@eat_lavash) She was welcomed with a three-tier birthday cake that boasted flower designs and gold text that read “Happy Birthday” in Portuguese. She posed for pictures with her family against a white backdrop covered in feathers that was lit with the message “Happy Birthday Georgina.” The private room was decorated with white balloons, gypsophila flowers and inflated helium balloons shaped as “29” and “G.”   The pathway to one of the dinner rooms reserved for the couple was decorated with pictures of the birthday girl. The room was decorated with candles to add a romantic feel, while Rodriguez was welcomed with a large white bouquet. The couple were also treated to two instrumentalists, playing an oud and a violin.   Fans of Ronaldo and Rodriguez gathered outside the restaurant to cheer the couple following the celebration. The model last week featured at the Joy Awards in Riyadh, showing off a midnight blue form-fitting velvet gown by Dubai-based Tunisian designer Ali Karoui. Her look featured a matching veil, gold pumps from Italian luxury shoemakers Le Silla, and jewelry from Kooheji, of Bahrain.   The Netflix star, who now calls Saudi Arabia home after her partner signed a record-breaking deal with Al-Nassr, shared her pictures on Instagram, and wrote: “A big thank you to everyone, love you Saudi Arabia.” Rodriguez also showed up to support her long-time partner as he made his Al-Nassr debut against Al-Ettifaq in the Saudi Pro League on Sunday. The footballer, 37, captained the team to a 1-0 win at Mrsool Park in Riyadh, while Rodriguez cheered on from the sidelines in a Ronaldo jersey, paired with cut-off jeans and a jacket.