JEDDAH: Indian melody king Kumar Sanu, playback singer M.G. Sreekumar, actor Dileep, and many more are set to take the stage in Jeddah for live music shows as part of the Indian Cultural Night. This was announced recently by Junaise Babu, chairman of Good Hope Events, at a press conference with the attendance of various media representatives from Saudi Arabia, India, Pakistan and Bangladesh. The two-day music festival will be held from Feb. 2-3 at the Equestrian Club located on Asfan Road, in the Al-Frosyah district in Jeddah. It is expected to draw more than 35,000 music fans from all Asian communities. Babu told Arab News that Saudi Arabia has been hosting massive entertainment and cultural events and is becoming the Gulf region’s premier entertainment hub. He said: “We are planning to introduce the same standard of events for our Asian community. “We are working with the relevant authorities and ensuring all safety measures are put in place as we organize a live music performance for thousands of expats in Jeddah, mainly from India, Pakistan and Bangladesh.” On Feb. 2, the South Indian night will feature Malayalam cinema’s favorite actor Dileep, singer Sreekumar, Nadirshah, Kottayam Naseer, Ranjini Jose, Amrutha Suresh, Fazilah Banu and Mahesh Kunjumon, among others. On Feb. 3, the Bollywood night music festival will be led by famous musicians such as Sanu and Rachana Chopra and various other artistic performers from Pakistan and Bangladesh. Tickets are already on sale, with four categories starting from SR500 ($133) for VVIP seats, diamond tickets for SR300, gold for SR150 and silver for SR90. Bollywood music events are a recurring theme on local event calendars. On Friday, the Makan Music Center in Jeddah organized an Indian-themed music night to support local artists and bands. Fans of Indian music were treated to well-known Bollywood tunes and other genres of Indian music. The themed night was part of Makan’s cultural events calendar, during which local bands showcased genres including Arabic and Latin music.