CAIRO: Egypt has launched a multimillion-dollar redevelopment of Giza Zoo and Orman Botanical Garden after denying rumors that the two sites would be sold after years of neglect. The country’s Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation said that the two sites would remain under its jurisdiction following a one-year construction period. A statement by the ministry came in response to rumors regarding the sale of the two parks. There are “many objectives and mechanisms” for the development of Giza Zoo, the ministry said. It added that the zoo had lost international classification after being neglected during past decades. Dwindling numbers of animals held by the zoo came as a result of the facility’s departure from international standards, the ministry said. It added that substandard infrastructure for animals in the zoo was a major reason for the park’s exit from international classification. The zoo’s state in recent years had prompted appeals from civil society organizations, writers, intellectuals and journalists for state intervention to save the park from collapse and restore its status. The Ministry of Agriculture said it was seeking to redevelop Giza Zoo and Orman Garden in line with international standards, stressing the importance of keeping green spaces intact and protecting rare plant species. It revealed plans to develop the parks with an investment of 1 billion Egyptian pounds ($36.2 million) through agreements between the National Authority for Military Production and several other parties. As part of the scheme, the ministry aims to re-establish Giza Zoo’s position in the World Association of Zoos. The National Authority for Military Production will manage the allocation of spending without any burden on the ministry, as well as supervise the operation, maintenance and management of both sites. In partnership with the Egyptian private sector, the authority will seek the help of a coalition of international companies to enable the modern development of both parks. The ministry added that it will continue to retain ownership of the two sites. It urged media outlets and social media users to fact-check reports before disseminating false information. Ahmed Ibrahim, media adviser to the ministry, said that Giza Zoo was still open to the public. It will continue to receive visitors until the end of contracting procedures and the signing of a usufruct contract for development. The two sites will be closed during the expansion because of construction work and infrastructure development, Ibrahim added. He said that the duration of the developments — based on the directives of the political leadership — had been shortened from two years to one year, adding that the ministry is keen to protect rare plant species through the scheme. 