JEDDAH: Twenty Saudi students can look forward to a future in the fast-growing coffee industry after celebrating their graduation on Wednesday from the pilot phase of a specialist  training scheme. The three-month Coffee Preparation Program was organized by Community Jameel Saudi and Bab Rizq Jameel in partnership with the Arabian Coffee Institute. The program trains Saudi youth in the techniques required to work in the coffee industry, focusing on interpersonal skills, coffee preparation, customer service and entrepreneurship. Graduates received a certificate accredited by the Arabian Coffee Institute and will have the opportunity to secure jobs with Al-Ezdhar & Al-Rafah Trading Ltd, steered by Bab Rizq Jameel Recruitment. Mohammed Abdul Ghaffar, general manager of Entrepreneurship and Social Initiatives at Community Jameel Saudi, said: “Our strategy is to achieve social economic and environmental prosperity while contributing to the Kingdom’s Vision 2030. “This partnership with the Arabian Coffee Institute encouraged us to deliver training programs that will equip young men and women with the skills necessary to succeed in this sector, enabling them to work in hotels, restaurants and cafes throughout the Kingdom.” The program will welcome 20 new participants in its second edition this month. Al-Muhannad Al-Marwai, executive director of the Arabian Coffee Institute, said: “We have a team of experts, researchers and more than 13 certified trainers who provide accredited training courses in the fields of coffee cultivation, processing, roasting, grinding and distillation, as well as sensory and barista skills.” One of the graduates, Aseel Zaki Anbul, said that he is confident of excelling in the job market, and described the program as a golden opportunity to learn and develop his abilities. “I am very pleased with the diversity of topics and skills covered in the training program. I look forward to providing customers with an enjoyable coffee experience,” he said. Under the umbrella of the Year of Saudi Coffee initiative, the program is supported by the Culinary Arts Commission at the Ministry of Culture, which focuses on developing and celebrating the coffee sector in Saudi Arabia, and exporting its products as an essential component of Saudi culture.