RIYADH: More than 32 participants from around the world competed on Sunday in a new beauty competition at the seventh King Abdulaziz Camel Festival, with an Iraqi winning first place with his animal. There were 15 participants — nine from Iraq, two from Egypt, and one each from Yemen, Libya, Britain and India — who qualified for the final round of judging. Iraq’s Watbaan Jabo Abbas Al-Rafi was ecstatic at taking first place. “I was honored to participate in the festival’s competitions, and I thank all those in charge of it, as this festival today has become a global event with the participation of many countries.” Libya’s Ahmed Mohamed Amma Quneidi came second, Egypt’s Amr Mohamed Shebl Al-Jariya and Lotfi Al-Sayed Fouda were third and fourth respectively, while another Iraqi Abdullah bin Dahi Al-Tobi secured fifth spot. Ahmed Mohamed, head of the Camel Owners’ Association in Libya, said he took part because he wanted to inspire young people to take pride in this part of Arab heritage and identity. “I extend my thanks to all those in charge of the festival. This participation differs from others in other countries (because it is) titled with a name dear to the hearts of all Arabs and takes place on an Arab land … Saudi Arabia.” Denis Bamford from Britain said “it was a dream come true” because he could participate in the competition with his camel Derry. Bamford, who said he feels like a Saudi at heart, visited the festival last year with a friend and was enamored by the ambience and culture. He has been connected to the Kingdom for two decades. Yemeni national Osama Saeed Al-Zuhairi, another participant, believes that the event has revived this aspect of Arab heritage globally. “Today, we take part in this event by thanking the president of the Camel Club, Sheikh Fahad bin Falah bin Hathleen, for allowing Arabs to participate in this festival, which is dear to everyone.” The King Abdulaziz Camel Festival is a cultural, economic, sports and entertainment event held annually in Saudi Arabia. Organized by the Saudi Camel Club, it saw the participation of thousands of camels in competitions offering prizes worth SR100 million.