RIYADH: The Riyadh Space Fair, which has the theme “Man and Space,” is running at the King Salman Science Oasis until the end of February. The fair, which opened its doors on Sunday, offers live educational and immersive experiences that enable visitors of all ages to learn about space science and its discoveries.   It expands on the relationship between man and the universe, giving visitors the chance to explore the wonders of space while learning about the great achievements that made a difference in mankind’s understanding of the cosmos. The fair showcases scientific developments that have allowed people to explore the world beyond our planet. It includes seven stations of live experiences full of information and entertainment.   These stations take visitors on a journey to explore developments in astronomy, cosmology, and contemporary scientific theories about the nature of the universe. These experiences include entertaining educational games, interactive simulators such as “Walking on Mars,” and experimentation with tools used to study the universe, such as telescopes and satellites.   Haifa Al-Idrisi, director of the event, told Arab News: “The fair aims to educate on everything related to space, through the pioneering experience of seven different areas that exist in the real world. “The experience of seven different zones will be presented in both interactive and educational ways. It will be through a moving exhibition containing holdings from several places, all related to space science, spacecraft, zero gravity, and interaction through simulators.” Khalid Al-Hazani, supervisor of the lifestyle sector at the Royal Commission for Riyadh City, said the fair mixes science and entertainment while contributing to enriching the scientific and cultural life among residents and visitors of the city. It has also helped to create job opportunities in line with the objectives of the Kingdom’s Vision 2030. The fair is organized by the Royal Commission for Riyadh City, in partnership with the Ministry of Education, the Saudi Space Commission, King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology, and the King Salman Science Oasis. The event opens daily from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. Tickets can be booked from riyadhspacefair.com.  