DUBAI: Argentinian model Georgina Rodríguez was spotted this week shopping at a toy store in Riyadh. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The “I am Georgina” star, who is Portuguese footballer Cristiano Ronaldo’s longtime partner, shared a picture of herself at the store on her Instagram Story and wrote: “Paradise,” adding a Riyadh location icon. She gave her 45 million fans another look at the store by sharing a picture of an isle packed with toys.   The model, who moved to the Kingdom last week following Ronaldo’s unveiling as a new member of Saudi’s Al-Nassr club, wore a pair of blue jeans with a navy blue blazer that had gold button detailing. She completed her look with a black turtleneck, black knee-high boots, a white belt and a leather bag. Her hair was in a slicked back bun.  A post shared by Georgina Rodríguez (@georginagio) Ever since her arrival in Saudi Arabia, Rodríguez has made a splash with her impeccable fashion taste and penchant for unique makeup looks — and it has set off a frenzy on social media as fans from Saudi Arabia and beyond rush to copy her style on TikTok and Instagram — including her Saudi lookalike, actress and model Rima Al-Anzi.  A post shared by Georgina Rodríguez (@georginagio) Al-Anzi had been scoring big on the internet due to the striking similarity between her and Rodríguez. “I love Georgina’s style,” the Saudi model told Arab News.  A post shared by ريما العنزي.(@rm.i247) Al-Anzi said that ever since she started her social media career, people have noticed the resemblance in their looks. “They always said I looked like her, but as I said before, Georgina was not a trend in Saudi Arabia that’s why there wasn’t this media buzz unlike now,” she explained. Al-Anzi believes that Rodríguez and Ronaldo are “lucky” to be in Saudi Arabia. “She and Ronaldo got spoiled here and saw respect that they did not get in their country, Portugal. So, I am sure any international player would have wished to be in Cristiano’s position in Saudi Arabia.”