DUBAI/CAIRO: The Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) strongly condemned a visit by an ultranationalist Israeli Cabinet minister to Al-Aqsa mosque compound in Jerusalem Tuesday morning. In a strongly worded statement, the OIC described the visit by Itamar Ben-Gvir, who briefly toured the site under heavy security, “as part of Israel’s attempts to change the existing historical and legal status of the blessed Al-Aqsa Mosque.” The OIC said it considered the act “a provocation to the feelings of all Muslims and a flagrant violation relevant international resolutions.” Ben-Gvir has long called for greater Jewish access to the holy site, which is viewed by Palestinians as provocative and as a potential precursor to Israel taking complete control over the compound. Ben-Gvir did not approach the mosque.
Palestinian Prime Minister Mohammad Shtayyeh cast the visit as a bid to turn the mosque complex “into a Jewish temple.” Addressing his cabinet, Shtayyeh also called on Palestinians to “confront the raids into Al Aqsa mosque.” The Palestinian Foreign Ministry said it “strongly condemns the storming of Al-Aqsa mosque by the extremist minister Ben-Gvir and views it as unprecedented provocation and a dangerous escalation of the conflict.” Jordan said on Tuesday it also condemned in the “severest” terms a visit by Ben-Gvir to the Al-Aqsa mosque compound. “Jordan condemns in the severest of terms the storming of the Aqsa mosque and violating it’s sanctity,” the foreign ministry said in a statement. Adding that the visit violated international law and “the historic and legal status quo in Jerusalem.” Ben-Gvir’s stated intention of visiting the site earlier this week drew threats from the Islamic militant group Hamas. A spokesman for Hamas said of Ben-Gvir's visit: “A continuation of this behaviour will bring all parties closer to a big clash.” The hilltop site in Jerusalem’s Old City is considered the holiest in Judaism and the third holiest in Islam, and is the emotional epicenter of the decades-long Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Most rabbis forbid Jews from praying on the site, but there has been a growing movement in recent years of Jews who support worship there. Ben-Gvir is head of the ultranationalist religious Jewish Power faction and has a history of inflammatory remarks and actions against Palestinians.  (With AP and Reuters)