DUBAI: California-based manufacturer the Diamond Foundry, backed by US Hollywood star Leonardo DiCaprio, has partnered with Dubai-based jewelry retailer Etika Jewels to offer carbon-free diamonds in the UAE for the first time. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The partnership will expand Etika Jewels’ offerings to include carbon-neutral lab-grown diamonds in addition to its existing lab-grown diamond collection.   The new offerings, which will be produced in the US, will feature carbon-neutral diamond options in an array of solitaires from 0.8 carats and above. Rings also come with certificates from the Diamond Foundry. The UAE startup, founded by Basma Chaieri in 2022, aims to empower customers to make more mindful choices when purchasing trendy and timeless jewelry. She said: “Our mission at Etika Jewels is to give customers access to responsible jewelry with distinctive features while empowering them to spend consciously.  A post shared by Etika Jewels(@etika_jewels) “As part of our continued commitment to sustainability, we are excited to partner with the best innovators in the sector like Diamond Foundry and be the first to offer a revolutionary diamond concept in the UAE. “By providing carbon-free lab-grown diamonds that are celebrity approved, we hope to inspire change in the local diamond industry and give customers a chance to look their best with standout pieces, without worrying about impacts on the environment and other stakeholders,” Chaieri added.  A post shared by Diamond Foundry (@diamondfoundry) Lab-grown diamonds are visually, physically, and chemically identical to mined diamonds, but have minimum adverse effects on the planet.   The Diamond Foundry uses cutting-edge technology to grow diamonds in laboratories with zero-carbon emissions using a hydropower-led process. By replicating extreme natural conditions, the technology forms diamonds of the highest quality and avoids the environmental and ethical tolls of mining.