DUBAI: Dubai has been crowned the No. 1 global destination in the Tripadviser Travelers’ Choice Awards for a second successive year.
The accolade, that consolidates the UAE city’s position as the world’s favorite tourist destination, reinforces the recently launched Dubai Economic Agenda D33 reform plan.
The initiative aims to strengthen Dubai’s status as one of the world’s top-three destinations for tourism and business, the Emirate’s News Agency reported on Wednesday.
The international ranking was announced by Tripadviser, the world’s largest travel guidance platform, at its annual Travelers’ Choice Best of the Best Destination Awards 2023.
The back-to-back global seals of approval underscore efforts to bolster the city’s vibrant economy and tourism ecosystem as it seeks to deliver the vision of the UAE’s vice president, prime minister, and ruler of Dubai, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al-Maktoum, to make Dubai the world’s most visited and liveable city.
Winners of the Tripadviser Travelers’ Choice Awards are chosen by millions of travelers from around the world, who provide their real and unbiased reviews or opinions on destinations, activities, and experiences.
The quality and quantity of independent destination reviews and ratings from travelers covered a period of 12 months from Nov. 1, 2021, to Oct. 31.
Dubai Crown Prince Sheikh Hamdan bin Mohammed Al-Maktoum, said: “The top ranking by global travelers reflects the vision of the leadership to transform Dubai into the world’s top destination for tourism and business, as embodied by a key goal of the Dubai Economic Agenda D33.
“The agenda’s objective of consolidating Dubai’s status as one of the world’s top-three cities for tourism and business signifies the leadership’s determination to mark Dubai out as a clear leader not only as a leisure and lifestyle destination but also as a hub for connectivity, commerce, and investment.”
Helal Saeed Al-Marri, director general of Dubai’s economy and tourism department, said: “Tourism is a central pillar of Dubai’s economic growth and diversification, and the continual investment in our product offering, a frictionless and superlative guest experience and the development of the sector and those working in it, will not only serve to further accelerate industry growth but critically, will have a significant multiplier impact on many other elements of Dubai’s economic landscape and global appeal to businesses and talent.”
Issam Kazim, the chief executive officer of the Dubai Corporation for Tourism and Commerce Marketing, said: “As a city that is always on the move, Dubai’s charm is its unique ability to surprise and delight both new and repeat visitors with its ever-growing diverse offering while keeping its authenticity and traditions intact.”
As one of the most sought-after cities for international travel, business, and events, Dubai’s significant resurgence throughout 2022 was further spurred by Expo 2020 Dubai, a global event that attracted more than 24 million visits.