CAIRO: Security services from Egypt’s Interior Ministry arrested three people for illegally excavating antiquities in Aswan Governorate, southern Egypt. The Tourism and Antiquities Police Department in Aswan acted on information that people were digging inside the archaeological area in the southern quarry area — El-Shallal “waterfall” — in Aswan with the aim of seizing a granite statue dating back to the pharaonic era. Authorities detained three people who were discovered digging in the area. Irregularly shaped drilling was found around the statue, which indicated plans to try and smuggle the item out of the site. The security services of the Beni Suef Security Directorate this week arrested two people on charges of digging and illegal excavations for antiquities in Beni Suef Governorate, south of Cairo. Drilling about one meter deep was found, and the tools used for excavation were seized. The suspects confessed to carrying out excavation work with the intent of smuggling antiquities, police said. Legal measures were taken against the two suspects, and they were referred to the Public Prosecution Office for investigation. Meanwhile, Hurghada International Airport customs officers prevented a passenger leaving for Germany from smuggling a quantity of narcotic drugs. The officers were acting under the provisions of the Anti-Narcotics Law No. 182 of 1960, the Pharmacy Practice Law No. 127 of 1955 and its amendments, the Customs Law No. 207 of 2020, and the Import and Export Law No. 118 of 1975. The Customs Authority acted on confidential information received from the Criminal Investigation Department. A customs officer assigned to the travel hall was tasked with inspecting the passenger’s luggage and eventually discovered the illegal drugs. The passenger was referred to Public Prosecution after the case was presented to the head of the Central Administration of Customs of the Red Sea and the Southern Region. In November, an attempt to smuggle narcotic pills into Egypt was thwarted by customs officers at Cairo International Airport. The pills were hidden in a milk container in the luggage of a passenger arriving from Qatar. The traveler was arrested and referred to prosecution for legal action. The measures come as Egypt tightens control over customs ports and airports to thwart attempts to evade authorities, officials said. 