DAVOS: Algeria and the Maghreb are among “early movers” employing innovative technologies and agricultural practices to improve sustainability, a report by the World Economic Forum says. The Food, Nature and Health Transitions – Repeatable Country Models report defined actions and investments that can accelerate a country’s transition towards more sustainable food systems with a lower impact on the climate and nature. Algeria has “more than doubled its per capita food production since 2020” through government programs and farming innovations, the report said. It added that it stands as an example to countries who wish to improve productivity, sustainability and food supply. “Transforming food systems provide healthy and nutritious diets and dignified jobs for farmers and producers,” said Gim Huay Neo, Managing Director of the WEF’s Centre for Nature and Climate. “This report shows how economic development with environment protection supports communities in climate adaptation and mitigation efforts,” she added. India, Ethiopia, Ghana, Vietnam, Canada, and New Zealand were also cited in the report. The report said that Ghana, India and Vietnam had unlocked and supported small and medium-sized enterprises, particularly those that are farmer-allied and operating in local food chains. Vietnam had meanwhile intensified rice production in a sustainable manner, while Canada and New Zealand had made their agriculture sectors more climate-friendly. “Depending on the country context, different pathways could be adopted to transform our agrifood systems for improved food security and nutrition and assuring sustainability,” said Maximo Torero Cullen, Chief Economist at the UN Food and Agriculture Organization. “Scaling up climate resilience and strengthening our food environment to promote healthy diets are two key interventions with positive impacts on food security, nature and health.” “When food fails, everything fails,” added Geraldine Matchett, Co-Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of Royal DSM, and Co-Chair of the CEO Alliance on Food, Nature and Health. “We must work to transform our food systems to be resilient, sustainable and healthy.” Farmers, according to the report, are more likely to adopt new practices if the economics work in their favor, but this requires action from many stakeholders. Each of the “early mover” profiles in the report illustrated how multiple actors and concurrent levers, across sectors, collaborate to enable large-scale transformation over time. Collectively, they demonstrate the potential for these levers, if applied in tandem and with greater urgency, to accelerate country-led food systems transformation.