DUBAI: The Dubai World Cup Carnival is back with a bang on Friday. For the latest updates, follow us on Twitter @ArabNewsSport Seven races take place at Meydan and it is a card which could easily unveil some major contenders for the World Cup fixture on March 25. The official feature is Group 2 Maktoum Challenge Round 1, over a mile on dirt, for which Listed Dubai Creek Mile winner Prince Eiji is the favorite. He deserves to be, as a progressive horse who beat several of these rivals last time. However, he faces some seasoned performers here, with Golden Goal, winner of this event 12 months ago, a viable contender from his own stable. Secret Ambition, winner of the G2 Godolphin Mile in 2021, is another to consider, as is Desert Wisdom, second in this year’s Godolphin Mile. The other Group 2 on the card is the Al-Fahidi Fort, over 1,400 meters on turf, which Godolphin have won in each of the last five seasons. Trainer Charlie Appleby is responsible for four of those wins and he has Noble Truth here, the hot favorite based on his Group 3 Jersey Stakes win at Royal Ascot. The only thing likely to beat him here is freshness after his break, in which case Alfareeq, as a Group 1 winner who has had a prep and escapes a penalty, might be next best. The Group 3 Dubawi Stakes is a good pointer towards the G1 Dubai Golden Shaheen and the winner of that race in March, Switzerland, reappears here. He goes very well fresh, so the absence since his big success is not a concern, and he also has the best of the draw in stall one. He faces some tough rivals though, including Mouheeb, who beat Tuz, Canvassed and Alkaraama in the Garhoud Sprint last time out. He gives weight away to his rivals this time but remains an exciting prospect now that he has been revitalized by trainer Michael Costa. It is only a listed event, but the closing Dubai Dash is probably the race of the night and it is good to see it named after Ertijaal, one of the most prolific and popular sprinters to race at Meydan. He would be a shoe-in for this, but is not here, so maybe it goes to Man Of Promise, who was third at Al-Quoz Sprint in March. The concern is that he is probably better over 1,200 meters than 1,000, in which case his trainer, Appleby, can win it anyway with Lazuli, who loves this trip. Keep an eye out too for Czech Republic raider Ponntos, a specialist at this distance. The three-year-olds get their own race in the Jumeirah Classic Trial, over 1,400 meters on turf. It should be another one for Appleby, with Courageous Knight and Highbank heading the overseas markets. However, Meydan dirt winner Long Kiss is a talented horse who should not be ignored, despite this surface switch. The first thoroughbred race on the card is the 2,410 meter DRC Classic, which is also traditionally a strong race for Godolphin, who run six here. Walk Of Stars, considered good enough to run in the Derby, is the one most people will put on their pick six forms, but do not ignore Valyrian Steel, who ran a good race here three weeks ago and will appreciate the extra distance this time. We cannot ignore the Purebred Arabians who clash in the opening G1 Maktoum Challenge R1 (PA). These are some of the best in the world, and RB Rich Lyke Me, winner of this event 12 months ago, will find it tough to hold off Kerless Del Roc, who has had the benefit of a winning start already this season in the Madjani Stakes. It promises to be another great day of racing, and entry is only 2 dirhams ($0.54), so why miss it?