Ali Husein Alireza is the managing director of Haji Husein Alireza and Co. Ltd., Saudi Arabia’s oldest automobile distributor. They are currently importers and distributors of Mazda vehicles from Japan, MAN trucks and buses from Germany, and Aston Martin cars from England. HHA also owns National Computer Systems Co., one of Saudi Arabia’s oldest information technology companies. Alireza became a board member of HHA in 2020. The company’s activities include shipping, travel and tourism, IT and communications, transportation, industrial investments, and real estate. His first position was asset and wealth management at a major bank in New York City, which helped him acquire significant experience in the world of finance and banking. Alireza has been part of various corporate boards in businesses such as retail and investment banking, insurance, and consumer finance, and spent 18 years on the board and executive committee of SAMBA before it merged with National Commercial Bank to form Saudi National Bank. He has also been a member of various committees in the Jeddah Chamber of Commerce and Industry from 1986 until today. He currently holds a number of important leadership and management roles. He is the chairman of Hertz Rental and Leasing (Al-Wasilah Rent A Car Co. Ltd.), NATCOM, AJIL Financial Services Co., and the chairman of the board of the Arabian Petroleum Supply Co. He is also involved with non-business entities. He is the chairman of the recently established Saudi Rowing Federation, and a member of the board of alumni advisors for Pepperdine University in California, where he supports the development of business education at the graduate school level. He is also the honorary consul for Mexico in Jeddah since 2016 and has participated in many events to promote the friendly relationship between Saudi Arabia and Mexico. He earned his master’s degree in business administration from Pepperdine University in California and a bachelor’s degree in business and finance from the University of Southern California in Los Angeles. 