RIYADH: Germany’s Ambassador hosted a classical concert on Wednesday at his residence in Riyadh with local artists blending Saudi and German influences in the music.
Performances by Riyadh-based artists Bouchra El Beainou (singing and piano), Elvin Najafov (violin) and Talal Abbas (piano) received standing ovations and thunderous applause. With chants of “once more” from the audience, the artists performed an encore at envoy Dieter Lamle’s request.
The three artists are part of Music House, a Saudi venture that describes itself as the first company specialized in music training in the Kingdom.
The ambassador stressed on the importance of promoting cultural exchange between Saudi Arabia and Germany.
“We have had a series of concerts in the past months. It is one of my main goals to support local artists and it gives me great pleasure to listen to them play German composers as well as their own compositions. Young talents are always welcome at the German embassy,” he said.
“You can kind of describe it as ‘cultural diplomacy’. The idea is to foster cultural exchange by bringing local artists together with German composers and at the same time give young artists a platform to perform and gain experience.”
Speaking to Arab News after the concert El Beainou, who is an opera singer and teacher at the Music House, said: “I am so happy, and very glad to be here for the classical concert hosted by the Germany Embassy. It’s a very wonderful feeling performing here, especially with the beautiful response from the audience. I want to thank the Music House and the German Embassy for giving us this opportunity.”
Abbas told Arab News: “We have the pleasure and honor to perform here at the German embassy. I am thankful to the ambassador for inviting us. He made us feel like we are at home to play as naturally as possible.
“The event was a big success. The audience enjoyed the music and we enjoyed playing.”
The guest list included professionals in the cultural sectors of Saudi Arabia, government officials, business people, diplomats and officials.