RIYADH: The second Saudi Design Festival concluded in the Kingdom’s capital on January 23 — but organizers will push their work beyond that date and the Kingdom’s borders. SDF is now an official member of World Design Weeks, where it will work alongside international counterparts to develop cross-event collaborations. It said it plans to participate at the World Design Summit, set to take place in Tokyo in October. The SDF team, which started Saudi Design Week nearly a decade ago, has also announced plans to become international and team up with the French embassy in Riyadh, the CY School of Design and France Design Week. The international counterparts were present during the SDF event in Riyadh, where initial commitments were solidified to create a long-term partnership and expand their cooperation. SDF said in a statement that it was “proud of its inclusion as one of the first members from the Gulf into the World Design Organization. “Aligning with the events and activities of the organization, Saudi Design Festival has started discussions with Hicham Lahlou, special envoy and regional advisor to the Middle East and North Africa of WDO,” it said. “We are excited to explore the opportunities for mutual collaboration and design promotion through SDF, not just in Saudi Arabia but the whole Gulf region. Now, more than ever, the design presents a common tool and ground for nations to find meaningful solutions together to address the global challenges we all face as humanity.” The agreement between Basma Bouzo, the CEO of SDF,  and Lahlou included discussions on incorporating WDO events and objectives in Riyadh and beyond. Building on the continuous support the festival has received from the Embassy of France in Riyadh, SDF has formally entered into talks with the cultural mission and Dominique Sciamma, Dean of the CY School of Design, President of APCI-Promotion du design, and France Design Week. The multi-partnership will focus on developing design education programs and joint-initiatives. Lahlou and Sciamma were also part of the festival’s design forum. Lahlou gave the audience insights into the value of international organizations and creating a global community, while Sciamma spoke of design education. For more information, visit the Saudi Design Festival website and their social media channels. 