RIYADH: American pop-rock band Imagine Dragons kicked off their fourth world tour at Riyadh Boulevard on Sunday, to screams of excitement from their fans, popularly known as firebreathers. Produced by Live Nation, the world tour celebrates the release of the band’s new double album, “Mercury – Acts 1 & 2.” Having kicked off their tour in the Kingdom, the other stops are neighboring Gulf countries, and then nations including India, South Africa, Brazil, Argentina, Denmark, Romania, Italy, the US, the UK and France. The multi-platinum, Grammy Award-winning band started off by performing “My Life” from their new album. They then launched into a series of their anthemic chart-topping singles. The double-album expands on 2021’s “Mercury – Act 1.” They also performed “Bones,” which has already been streamed over 330 million times and hit the Billboard Hot 100. The firebreathers at the venue were bursting with joy, singing along to recent releases including “Sharks,” “I am Happy,” and “Follow You.” A fan, Abdulaziz Al-Qahtani, told Arab News: “The concert was amazing and the weather made it all better. My friends and I are especially excited for the song ‘Believer’ from their album ‘Evolve.’” Having kicked off their tour in the Kingdom, the other stops are neighboring Gulf countries, and then nations including India, South Africa, Brazil, Argentina, Denmark, Romania, Italy, the US, the UK and France. Tears rolled down lead singer Dan Reynolds’ cheeks as he sang “Birds” from their 2018 deluxe album “Origins.” “This song is dedicated to all the people we lost but will see again,” he said before the performance.   Firebreathers at the concert were certainly blown away by the musical prowess, visual aesthetics and creative transitions during the show. However, much to the audience’s dismay, the concert ended earlier than expected and all the band’s merchandise was sold out. Bilal Alamasi, who was in attendance, said he loved the experience and thanked Turki Al-Sheikh, chairman of the General Entertainment Authority, for the season of activities. Alamasi told Arab News: “Everything was amazing. Thank you very much to everybody who participated in organizing this amazing event. And hopefully we can see Imagine Dragons again. This is the first time I saw them live.”   “Thankfully, I got the opportunity to actually attend this year. Imagine Dragons, please come again. Riyadh will welcome you as always. This is your place. This is everybody’s place,” he added. On their official Instagram account, Imagine Dragons shared a message regarding “Mercury – Act 2.” “This record is not about death, but rather, life. May every day be your best. May this record bring you joy. It has brought me joy, and you bring me joy. Thank you for listening for all these years. Sending you all my love.”