RIYADH: With the arrival of a cold snap in Riyadh, Winter Wonderland gave visitors free admission on Jan. 7 — but only if they were dressed for the occasion. “Khalageen Al-Sheta,” or “Winter Clothes Day,” was an opportunity for people to dress comically and enjoy the cold weather. The word “Khalageen” refers to wearing many unmatched layers of old clothes due to the cold, and is often employed in Riyadh in winter. Visitors obliged on “Winter Clothes Day,” and threw on layers of whatever they found in their wardrobes.   “I’m excited because I came from Jeddah,” Deema Al-Shohail told Arab News. Fadi Al-Sallakh came with his whole family to enjoy the offer, dressed in many layers of mismatched winter clothes. • Winter Clothes Day was a chance for people to dress comically and enjoy the cold weather with friends and family. • The hot chocolate at Winter Wonderland Cafe is the ideal drink of the season. “I come to Winter Wonderland every year because my kids love the place, and I’m also here with my wife and mother-in-law in many clothes with gloves and a beanie. I love the amazing weather,” Al-Sallakh said.   Yasser Abdulaziz and Turki Mohammed chose to wear everything they could find, with colorful layers of clothes and scarves shielding them. “I read about the event on Twitter, and I talked to my friend, and he said ‘Let’s go.’ The event is about wearing anything you can find, and this is what I did. I’m (dressed like) La’eeb, the mascot of the World Cup,” Abdulaziz said. “Khalageen is about picking up everything you can and wearing it. I’m wearing a jacket from a Colombia brand, an inside jacket from Adidas, and pants from a local brand, Yeezy’s, and a scarf from the World Cup,” Mohammed said.   Amani Sulaiman and her sisters dressed to impress with their funky winter outfits. “I saw the poster, and it took us one day to plan the outfits and match them all together. My outfit is inspired by Slytherin House in Harry Potter,” Sulaiman said. Sisters Lamees and Zain Mohammed came to celebrate the event with black and white winter clothes.   “We heard about the event through Instagram, and we were very happy and excited to come because it’s our first time visiting Winter Wonderland. We were so excited that it took us two hours to decide what to wear to look good while also layering in clothes. The vibes are just amazing,” Lamees said. People had a great time at Winter Wonderland, which has more than 80 games and activities. The area includes many restaurants and cafes, but the most prominent of them is the Winter Wonderland Cafe, which is famous for its hot chocolate, an ideal drink for cold nights. As part of Riyadh Season’s 15 entertainment zones, Winter Wonderland features a snow forest, frozen sculptures, a house of horrors, and a skating rink. 