Al-Hilal’s indifferent league form continued on Tuesday with a 1-1 draw at Al-Raed, the champions’ third stalemate in four games. The result leaves them third in the Saudi Professional League, three points behind leaders Al-Nassr after having played a game more. For the latest updates, follow us on Twitter @ArabNewsSport It was a frustrating evening for the visitors after they started brightly. Hamad Al-Yami’s first-half goal put them ahead but they were left to regret not putting the game to bed after 76 minutes as substitute Yahya Mubarak headed home the equalizer to give Al-Raed a hard-fought point. It means that Ramon Diaz’s men now have 26 points from 13 games, level on points but behind second-placed Al-Shabab, who drew 1-1 with Al-Ittihad, now in fourth, on Monday. As the season approaches the halfway stage, just four points separate the top four. Al-Raed move into 10th. Al-Hilal quickly took control against the hosts, who would have moved into the top half of the table with a win. The opening goal may have been scrappy but it was no more than the visitors deserved. Al-Yami burst into the left side of the area and while his first shot from close range was saved, as was Michael’s follow-up, the 25-year-old was on hand to lash the ball into the roof of the net from the tightest of angles. Three minutes later, it looked as if the Blues had doubled their lead. There was more good work from Al-Yami down the left that ended in Luciano Vietto slotting home, but the goal was ruled out for a foul in the buildup. Al-Raed had a great chance to level 10 minutes into the second half as Damjan Dokovic sprinted free of the visiting defense but the Croatian skied his shot from the edge of the area with just the goalkeeper to beat. Al-Hilal should have sealed the win with 20 minutes remaining. Salem Al-Dawsari marauded down the left and cut inside but his low shot was saved by Ahmad Al-Harbi as was Vietto’s follow-up. Five minutes later, Al-Raed were level thanks to a flowing move. Mohamed Fouzair was freed down the left and the Moroccan floated over a perfect cross for the diving Mubarak to head past Abdullah Al-Mayouf. It set up an exciting final quarter of an hour. The Riyadh giants poured forward, in a desperate attempt to restore their lead but in doing so, left themselves open to counter. They were almost punished with eight minutes remaining as Mubarak’s shot, though it was probably a miscued cross, from the right ended up hitting the bar with Al-Mayouf beaten. There was still time for Al-Hilal to miss more chances but they return to Riyadh with just a point and much to think about.