RIYADH: The second Qemam International Festival for Mountain Performance Arts is taking place in seven sites across the Asir region. The festival, which is organized by the Theater and Performing Arts Commission, continues until Jan. 27.   The event includes a lively carnival parade in Art Street in Abha, which showcases costumes, folk performances, and floats beautifully decorated in the colors of participating countries. The festival features 16 Saudi folk bands and 14 international groups.   Theater and Performing Arts Commission CEO Sultan Al-Bazei said that Qemam is the first global festival to promote heritage sites, in addition to featuring mountain performance arts. Asir locations in the spotlight include Basta Al-Qabil, Abu Shahra Palace in Al-Masqi, Shamsan Castle, Bin Adwan Heritage Village, Malik Historical Palace, Al-Mushait Palaces, and the Castles of Abu Nuqata Al-Mutahmi.   Al-Bazei added that visitors to the festival will be introduced to young talents through a variety of musical and art performing shows. These include cultural activities that are not usually found in modern cities. Qemam festival seeks to highlight the rich folklore and heritage of the Kingdom, as well as contributing to the development of the theater and performing arts sector.   It celebrates culture in a distinctive festive atmosphere, while helping to develop the sector, in line with the objectives of Saudi Arabia’s Vision 2030 and the country’s national strategy. Al-Bazei said that the event aims to build on the success achieved by the first festival. It intends to raise the level of awareness of local and international arts and ancient heritage, and provides an opportunity for visitors to explore local history.   Abha Literary Club has joined with the festival to present a cultural program through seminars and workshops about performing arts, with the participation of Saudi and international experts. Each festival site hosts a group of events in allocated areas, such as the exhibition of costumes and theater, village folk activities, platforms for live music, a children’s area, craft shops, and a variety of stores selling different goods, gifts, fashionable clothing, and souvenirs. There are also live cooking shows with the participation of well-known local chefs. Visitors have the opportunity to participate in activities such as hiking, mountain biking, and camping, which can be arranged with local tourism companies.  