DUBAI: The 2023 Saudi Cup has attracted over 1,400 entries, with horses from 22 countries looking to participate at the King Abdulaziz Racecourse in Riyadh from Feb. 24 – 25.For the latest updates, follow us on Twitter @ArabNewsSport
Participants, which include 600 entries from overseas, are seeking a share of the $35.35 million prize.
The two-day meeting will see horses from Japan, US and UAE dominate the entries and a strong representation from the UK, Ireland, Argentina, France, and Germany.
Five Group 3 races feature at the two-day meeting, alongside the world’s most valuable race, the $20 million Group 1 Saudi Cup (1800m). 
“Once again we’re delighted with the depth of the international entries, from 22 different countries across five continents, which goes to show the reputation and global standing The Saudi Cup meeting has quickly established after just three years,” said Tom Ryan, Racing Advisor to the Jockey Club of Saudi Arabia.
Emblem Road (USA), the locally-owned and trained winner of the 2022 Saudi Cup, is set to defend his title. 
A second win for Emblem Road would make him the highest earning Thoroughbred in history with $20.2 million, ahead of Australian wondermare Winx who totalled $18.3 million by the end of her career.
A total of 47 Group 1 winners could be set to take part in the competition, including 2022 Saudi Cup runner-up and 2022 Dubai World Cup winner, Country Grammer (USA), and Taiba (USA), a three-time Grade 1 winner.
The UAE has the second-highest rated entry for The Saudi Cup in the shape of Charlie Appleby’s Rebel’s Romance (IRE), an impressive winner of the Grade 1 Breeders’ Cup Turf when last seen.
Meanwhile, Japan’s bid for a first Saudi Cup could be led by the Yoshito Yahagi-trained Panthalassa (JPN) and Tetsuya Kimura’s Geoglyph (JPN). Jun Light Bolt (JPN) holds an automatic entry after winning the Group 1 Champions Cup at Chukyo in December.
“Last year’s meeting could not have been more successful, with Emblem Road making history by becoming the first Saudi Arabian-trained winner of The Saudi Cup. There was also the remarkable success of Japanese horses, who took home four Group races, and the strength of the Japanese entry has continued to grow this year”, said Ryan. 
Laws of Indeces (IRE) becomes the first Australian horse to enter The Saudi Cup, after being nominated by Sydney-based trainer Annabel Neasham.
There’s also a strong entry from Europe and South America, with potential runners including Group 1 winners Saffron Beach (IRE), Order Of Australia (IRE) and the Maria Muñoz-trained Niño Guapo (ARG).
Another feature on the first day of the meeting is the $500,000 Saudi International Handicap, a race designed for horses trained in countries that are not in Part I of the IFHA’s Blue Book.
Possible entries include horses from 11 countries: Czech Republic, Spain, Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Italy, Greece, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain and Qatar, as well as a potential first Portuguese-trained runner. For the latest updates, follow us on Twitter @ArabNewsSport