ABU DHABI: Abu Dhabi on Friday officially launched an advanced marine research vessel with a mission to monitor sea life and help combat the effects of climate change in the Gulf.
‘Jaywun’, a 50-meter vessel developed by the emirate’s environment agency EAD, was launched by its Chairman Sheikh Hamdan bin Zayed Al-Nahyan.
The vessel can be crewed by around 30 people, and is equipped with the advanced equipment including six laboratories and a remotely operated submersible.
Jaywun, which is a reference to a valuable pearl, will operate in the UAE’s territorial waters in the Arabian Gulf and the Sea of Oman, allowing EAD to study the environment and fisheries in waters deeper than 10 meters.
The Emirates News Agency said that Jaywun will strengthen national and global marine science and monitor and assess the environment and the effects of climate change on biodiversity.
Sheikh Hamdan said: “The research will be led by a specialized team of passionate environmental experts who will apply their considerable collective knowledge and work to develop a deeper understanding of the marine environment and formulate a response to any threats.”
The research will also provide a solid scientific foundation to manage the marine environment, he added. The vessel will also enable EAD to monitor and preserve fish stocks and marine biodiversity.
Jaywun will also support several environmental initiatives, such as the Blue Carbon Assessment Project for Oceanic Fisheries – the first such survey in the region which will support the UAE’s goal to be carbon neutral by 2050.
The plan also includes establishing a DNA baseline for the UAE’s main fish species, while studying the complete genome sequences of more than 10 major fish species.
Jaywun will this year assess the stocks in the country’s waters through the collection of marine organisms and the use of sonar surveys.
The vessel began a one-month, maiden voyage at the end of November, and crossed three continents – Europe, Africa and Asia – including the waters of 25 countries and eight regional seas, covering a distance of more than 10,000 km.
Dr. Shaikha Salem Al-Dhaheri, EAD’s Secretary-General, said: “The vessel will play an important role in developing strategies and management plans to ensure the recovery and sustainability of fish stocks.”
Captain Mohammed Juma Al-Shamsi, Managing Director and Group CEO, AD Ports Group, said: “We are proud to have SAFEEN Group manage, operate and maintain the research vessel, which reflects our technological advancement, our growing capabilities and our active role in supporting scientific research.”