RIYADH: The UAE ambassador to the Kingdom, Sheikh Nahyan bin Saif Al-Nahyan, had a meeting with Ahmed bin Fahd Al-Fuhaid, governor of the Technical and Vocational Training Corp., in Riyadh. The two exchanged views on cooperation in vocational fields. A delegation of trainees from the Abu Dhabi Center for Technical and Vocational Education and Training was also present at the meeting. “The delegation of trainees from the Abu Dhabi Center @ACTVETuae visited @tvtc_g_RACT to get acquainted with the college and its outputs, exchange experiences and knowledge, and visited the exhibition of the four innovative challenge competitions organized by the TVTC,” tweeted the corporation. The visit comes within the initiative of the Saudi-Emirati Coordination Council to enhance integration and cooperation between the two countries in the field of technical and vocational training. The initiative’s aim is to exchange experiences and knowledge through mutual visits to view the most important technical and scientific experiences and developments that aim to enrich male and female trainees from both countries. When the council was established in 2016, Minister of Economy and Planning Faisal Alibrahim said that the council aimed to be “the ideal platform to realize the visions of the two leaderships in terms of enhancing cooperation and accelerating integration to serve the interests of the two nations in different fields and consolidate their fraternal ties.” The UAE ambassador and the accompanying delegation of trainees toured the college facilities, and listened to a detailed explanation about the training curricula, specializations, and programs to support innovation. They also visited laboratories and training workshops in order to benefit from the exchange of knowledge. Sheikh Nahyan thanked the TVTC governor and praised the efforts that were made for the benefit of the parties. He also thanked the TVTC for hosting the Emirati students delegation as part of the Saudi-Emirati Coordination Council initiatives.