BEIRUT: The Ministry of Education decided on Tuesday to suspend afternoon classes attended by Syrian refugee students in Lebanon’s public schools, after teachers had earlier ended morning sessions allocated to Lebanese students in such establishments.
Albert Chamoun, an adviser at the ministry, told Arab News that the decision was taken “because the administrative and educational authority cannot suspend morning classes attended by Lebanese students, while maintaining the afternoon shifts allocated to Syrian refugee students.”
He added: “Donor countries are not going to pay teachers’ wages.
“The ministry had secured some incentives in dollars last year for the teachers through previous accounts, but failed to secure these incentives this year.
“Teachers rejected a proposal by the minister of education to receive $5 for every working day, which would amount to $70 per month, but they insist on receiving $100. This is why the situation is a mess now.”
The decision to end teaching for Syrian students was announced by Imad Achkar, director general of education, who said “it was taken in accordance with the principle of equality.”
He added: “We receive everyone and our hearts are open to everybody, but it’s unacceptable for non-Lebanese children to receive an education, while our Lebanese children are deprived of it.
“Therefore, we announce the suspension of afternoon classes for non-Lebanese, pending a solution for the morning classes issue.”
Administrators and teachers of Syrian students receive their salaries in dollars from donors, according to prior agreements.
Teachers at public schools held protests throughout Lebanon on Monday. Hundreds of teachers sat out classes after they arrived at school and signed the attendance register.
They held sit-ins in school playgrounds, despite being pressured by political parties, including Hezbollah, to work.
Teachers have also ignored the will of their unions and decided to take to the streets to protest at their conditions.
High school teacher Ali Al-Dehni said: “We’ve been suffering for three years because of false promises and scarce incentives.
“Teaching has been an uphill battle and we are paying from our own money for fuel so we can drive to schools and carry out our educational duty.”
Meanwhile, Caretaker Health Minister Firass Abiad has announced that “subsidies have been completely lifted off baby formula for lack of a plan capable of controlling smuggling and selling in the market.”
Abiad said that “the subsidized quantity was enough for two countries and we were probably purchasing a quantity that suffices two countries,” in a clear reference to the issue of smuggling of the formula into Syria.
Infant and baby formula was the only type of milk still subsidized.
Joe Salloum, president of the pharmacists union, said that over the past week the milk had been missing in pharmacies and was available on the black market.
Separately, dozens of relatives of victims of the Beirut port explosion gathered in front of the Justice Palace to protest at the stalled investigation into the case.
The probe into the crime, which took place over two years ago, has been suspended for nearly 12 months as a result of complaints filed against investigating judge Tarek Bitar.
Scuffles took place between protesters and security forces deployed to protect the Justice Palace, resulting in some injuries.
The protest coincided with the arrival of European investigators in Beirut to question Riad Salameh, Lebanon’s central bank governor, and a meeting of the Supreme Judicial Council to request the appointment of judges of the Court of Cassation.
William Noun, a spokesperson for the families affected by the port explosion, said: “We’ve had enough of empty words while waiting for a solution to our case. Peaceful protests are no longer useful.”