RIYADH: Researchers from Saudi Arabia and Yemen won the Hamdan Award for Distinguished Educational Research at its 25th session in Tunis. The Arab League Educational, Cultural and Scientific Organization announced on Wednesday that four research papers were awarded in 2022. A statement issued by ALECSO from its headquarters in Tunis stated that the first winning research paper belongs to Ali bin Hassan Shawkan Najmi. The paper is titled: “The effect of using flipped classes based on game stimuli in developing organized learning skills, self-sufficiency and educational resilience among third-intermediate students in the English language course.” Another winning research paper from Saudi Arabia was conducted by Mohammed bin Ali Al-Kherezi. The paper is titled: “A proposed normative framework for developing performance indicators in secondary schools in the Kingdom.” The third research paper, by Saudi researcher Maryam Yahya Mohammed Atif, is titled: “Awareness of cybersecurity and its relationship to digital transformation among male and female supervisors of the education administration in the Jazan region.” The research paper by Yemeni researcher Khaled Hassan Ali Al-Hariri, titled, “A proposed vision for employing digital media for Arab universities in spreading and consolidating the values of coexistence and tolerance among university youth,” also won an award. On the occasion, ALECSO Director-General Mohammed Walad Amar emphasized the need for research to contribute to educational decision-making in order to strengthen the efforts of governments and organizations in the Arab world that are aimed at improving education. Walad Amar said that the ALECSO Hamdan Award has succeeded in discovering successful research practices in the field of education in the Arab world, which will increase opportunities for development and improve education in the region. ALECSO is a Tunis-based specialized institution working under the umbrella of the Arab League. It was established with the aim of promoting Arab intellectual unity and enhancing education, culture and science in the Arab World.