DHAHRAN: Ithra has launched its own version of the “kashtah” experience, the quintessential Arabian tradition of desert residents unwinding under the winter night sky while wrapped up in cozy layers to chat and enjoy Arabic coffee. Visitors can now rent elegant and cozy tents for a few hours in Dhahran. It’s the perfect spot to take a step back, rejoice in the winter air, and sip a warm drink while chatting under the benevolent stars. Open nightly from 5 p.m. until midnight, Wacafe Camp at Ithra provides a cozy desert experience. Visitors rent a semi-open space, with a view of the iconic Ithra building decorated in lights. The tent is covered from the top but open from the sides. The outdoor camp has special zones with live musical performances and on-site cooking stations. Visitors can also shop for gifts from local vendors. Reservations must be booked by time slot through the MyTable app. It costs SR600 ($160) for a tent that would be comfortable for five people. It costs SR50 to enter the area if you would like to simply wander and soak up the atmosphere, taking a breather at the communal seating areas. Dress code is semi-formal. Parking is plentiful and, as in all Ithra spots, payment is accepted from Mada and Apple Pay. There are now several refreshment options at Ithra. On entering the Ithra Plaza, fresh coffee can be savored at popular pop-up Coyard. Contemporary Greek food is offered at Okto, a restaurant on the 14th floor of the plaza. Tucked away at the back of the library is Madeleine, for coffees and pastries. Down the escalator and to the back is a bigger menu selection in the main dining area. Those who choose to exit the main Ithra building to spend time in the Lush Garden can enjoy a refreshing drink break at Inner Circle or Maskob. A brisk walk will take you to Zooba, a funky street food joint straight from Cairo. Meat lovers will find Marble nearby. A free Ithra bus transports visitors to and from the main building to the outdoor eateries on the premises. 