DUBAI: Brazilian model Cindy Mello is the latest celebrity to step out in a sparkling creation from Lebanese designer Georges Chakra. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The model was attending the charity gala LuisaViaRoma for UNICEF, held on the Caribbean island of Saint-Barthelemy, and sponsored partly by Saudi Arabia’s Red Sea International Film Festival.  A post shared by CINDY MELLO (@cindymello) RSIFF is is the founding partner of the charity night, which raises funds in support of UNICEF’s projects around the world. Mello, who has more than 1.3 million followers on Instagram, opted for a peach embroidered gown from Georges Chakra’s spring-summer 2022 collection. The model also wore the label at the charity gala’s summer edition in Italy earlier this year when she appeared in a draped sequined knit maillot gown with a black velvet belt that added a feminine touch to the creation. The glitzy dress, from the designer’s fall/winter 2022 haute couture collection, featured a long train and plunging neckline. Apart from Mello, other celebrities to have championed the Lebanese designer include Bulgarian actress Maria Bakalova, Brazilian model Adriana Lima, singer and television show host Nicole Scherzinger, and K-Pop star Victoria Song.  A post shared by Maria Bakalova (@mariabakalovaofficial) The Oscar-nominated actress Bakalova stepped out in a glittering black gown from Georges Chakra at the 35th edition of the European Film Awards earlier this month, held at the Harpa concert hall in Reykjavik. The actress opted for a piece from the label’s fall-winter 2023 couture collection, featuring a fitted, sheer bodice with see-through sleeves. Bakalova made her debut with her portrayal of the character Milena in the 2017 movie “XIIa.” However, she stepped into the limelight playing the role of Tutar Sagdiyev in the 2020 mockumentary “Borat Subsequent Moviefilm,” winning the Critics’ Choice Movie Award and gaining a nomination for the Academy Awards. The actress was most recently in “The Guardians of the Galaxy Holiday Special,” released on Disney+, where she voiced the character of Cosmo the Space Dog.