DUBAI: Miss Universe Bahrain Evlin Abdullah Khalifa, who is also a pianist, performed this week at a jazz restaurant in New Orleans ahead of the Miss Universe competition. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The 24-year-old model was chosen as one of the nine delegates to perform “Canal Street Blues” by King Oliver’s Creole Jazz Band. “I am an introvert, I always have a hard time expressing myself without thinking too much,” she wrote to her followers on Instagram. “Music has been my therapy to overcome such emotions and feelings.”  A post shared by Miss Universe Bahrain (@missuniversebahrain) “I am so happy and excited to be out with my fellow sisters for a musical outing trip rediscovering the heritage of Jazz music,” she said. Abdullah Khalifa on Friday met all her co-candidates in a formal orientation day with the president of Miss Universe, Paula Shugart. Abdullah Khalifa was named this year’s Miss Universe Bahrain in September.  A post shared by Miss Universe Bahrain (@missuniversebahrain) In a previous interview with Arab News, she said that winning the title “completely changed” her life. “In this short time, I learned and saw so many new things. I traveled to the Philippines. I have been training there with one of the best beauty pageant trainers,” she said. Abdullah-Khalifa said that her main goal in taking part in the pageant is to “let the world know more about (Arabs), more about our culture.” She added: “I think the world should know that we, modern Arab women, can combine modern values with centuries-old traditions.”  A post shared by YASMINA ZAYTOUN (@yasminazaytoun) Abdullah Khalifa is not the only Arab model launching her bid for the Miss Universe title. Miss Universe Lebanon Yasmina Zaytoun is also competing. The 20-year-old model is an ambassador for the Children Cancer Center of Lebanon, a leading national organization dedicated to the treatment and support of kids and adolescents with cancer.  A post shared by YASMINA ZAYTOUN (@yasminazaytoun) Zaytoun is a motivational speaker. She began her own social media show “With Yasmina Show” in 2020. “I will tell the universe about a country that survived and chose life over everything,” she wrote on Instagram this week.