RIYADH: Members of the Shoura Council’s joint Saudi-Azerbaijani Parliamentary Friendship Committee, headed by Dr. Faiz Al-Shehri, have held talks with Jeyhun Aziz oglu Bayramov, Azerbaijan’s minister of foreign affairs. The meeting took place during the committee’s visit to the Azerbaijani capital, Baku, the Saudi Press Agency reported on Saturday. The two sides discussed a number of topics of common interest and ways to strengthen relations between Saudi Arabia and Azerbaijan. The committee also met Sahiba Gafarova, speaker of the National Assembly of Azerbaijan. The two sides looked at ways to enhance ties in various fields, especially parliamentary relations. Gafarova praised the depth and strength of the ties between the two countries, which are witnessing great development. The visitors also held a meeting with the Azerbaijani-Saudi Parliamentary Friendship Committee, headed by Fatma Yildirim. During the meeting, the two sides discussed areas of cooperation between their countries and stressed the importance of activating the role of parliamentary friendship committees and holding meetings to bolster cooperation between the two councils. In February, Azerbaijan’s Ambassador to Saudi Arabia Shahin Abdullayev held a meeting with the Saudi-Azerbaijani Parliamentary Friendship Committee in Riyadh. Al-Shehri hailed relations between the two countries and affirmed the Kingdom’s keenness to strengthen them for mutual benefit. Abdullayev also stressed the importance of boosting cooperation at the parliamentary level. In November, King Salman bin Abdulaziz received a written message from President Ilham Aliyev of Azerbaijan regarding the two countries’ strong relations. A month earlier, Saudi Foreign Minister Faisal bin Farhan and his Azerbaijani counterpart Jehon Bermov celebrated 30 years of diplomatic relations between the two countries at a ceremony held at the Azerbaijani Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Baku. In his opening speech, Bermov announced his country’s support for the Kingdom’s candidacy to host Expo 2030 in Riyadh. 