RIYADH: The Saudi MICE Forum’s “platform for innovation, thought leadership and human capital development” begins discussing the exhibition and conferences industry in Riyadh on Sunday. The two-day event is organized by the Saudi Exhibitions and Conferences Association in partnership with the Saudi Conventions and Exhibitions General Authority. More than 40 local and international experts and specialists are scheduled to participate in the forum which is supported by many international organizations, including the International Congress and Convention Association, the International Association of Exhibitions and Events, and the Global Association of the Exhibition Industry. The forum will also include an exhibition featuring industry players, such as event organizers, logistics and technical service providers, advertising and PR companies, decoration firms, hotels, event caterers, and travel and tourism companies, among others. Amjad Shacker, the acting CEO of the Saudi Exhibitions and Conferences Association, said that the SECA is interested in raising awareness and international competitive practices in the sector. He said: “SECA sees a pivotal role for associations in the sector to contribute to spreading this awareness, and working with the association to promote the sector in the Kingdom, where we aim to support and attract quality exhibitions and conferences, while we are working on marketing the competitive advantages that the Kingdom abounds in.” The forum will focus on the opportunities provided by the objectives of the Kingdom’s Vision 2030 to enhance and develop the industry. It will discuss several main themes, including shaping the future of the industry, its economic impact, and new innovations. The Saudi MICE Forum aims to build a solid and sustainable ecosystem that can support all concerned parties in the development of the industry. This will help it to achieve its maximum potential to make the Kingdom a true regional hub for the conferences and exhibitions business.