DUBAI: Jordanian Romanian footwear designer Amina Muaddi was spotted at Milan Menswear Fashion Week in a chic masculine look as she attended the Prada runway show on Sunday. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The designer and celebrity in her own right took to Instagram Stories to document her time in Milan, including short clips of her time at the Prada show where she showed off a black cardigan over a expertly tailored white shirt and pencil skirt paired with sky-high pumps from her eponymous label.   The Milan menswear runway was full of spare looks for next fall and winter. Muaddi correctly picked up on the color of the season in her black outfit — variations of black were spotted on the runway at a number of shows. The silhouette of the season is slim or relaxed, but mostly tailored, the Associated Press reported. A post shared by Prada (@prada) The ceiling on the darkened Prada showroom rose to reveal industrial chandeliers as the first looks appeared on the runway: Tailored, slightly blocky suit jackets with sharp, wing-like collars that flapped gently with each step, secured and cushioned by just a wisp of colorful knitwear. The collars, reminiscent of the 1930s or ‘70s and in retro geometric prints, gave a romantic touch to an otherwise spare and cleansing collection by co-creative directors Miuccia Prada and Raf Simons. “There is no space for useless creativity,” Prada summed up backstage. The sharp collars, which appeared also on cardigans, are detachable, giving garments a longer life and utility. The pair continued their exploration of uniforms, the sort that exemplify the value of working and not projecting authority. In that vein, suede tunics with matching overcoats recalled an artisan’s apron, worn with a shirt and tie to emphasize the virtue of work, and over the season’s slim trousers. The clean looks and minimalist tailoring had an intentional retro-futuristic feel, that Simons defined as “very Prada, in my opinion.” Puffer coats had a rotund shape. Quilted T-shirts kept the torso warm under overcoats. Shoes were thick-soled lace-ups with raised piping. Bags were slim document or computer bags, with a thermos slot. A post shared by Prada (@prada) Suiting was mostly black or gray, with separates providing color: trousers in red or green, cerulean blazers, yellow and pink cardigans. Even the venue at the Fondazione Prada was stripped of artifice, down to the concrete floors and walls and ceiling, which dropped back down as the models left the runway. A post shared by Prada (@prada) Outside, hundreds of screaming K-Pop fans greeted boyband Enhypen as they arrived for the show, and a few were rewarded with selfies afterward.