RIYADH: The Riyadh Season has offered exciting opportunities with its themes of adventure, imagination, and innovation, and provided a platform to showcase creative art. Many talented artists of all nationalities and cultural backgrounds have had opportunities to show off their skills, and place their creative crafts on display at Boulevard World. One of them is Adam, an Italian craftsman who has exhibited rare handcrafted glass works. Through his skill in the industry, Adam presents many items for home decoration, in addition to other products such as trays. Adam says that the molten and colored glass he uses does not fade and can be made into different shapes and designs of various sizes. The craftsman also shows his skills with visitors, stressing the practice is one of the oldest professions in Italy. It has been Adam’s profession for more than 20 years, during which time he has refined his talent and gained the sufficient knowledge to excel in it. Adam explained that in addition to glass, he uses sand and copper, which blends to get a green color, and iron to obtain derivatives of blue. He also works with gold. Boulevard World has become a center for artists to display their work, and gives them the opportunity to explain their passion and show their prowess as they create. Nidaa Al-Maghlouth, a pottery maker in Little Riyadh, shows visitors her skills while introducing them to the basics of her craft. She said that making pottery requires precision, and the process goes through several stages that may take about five days. She has worked in medical laboratories in Italy, and speaks English and Italian, but pottery combines art, pleasure, and entertainment for her. Al-Maghlouth believes that talent alone is not enough, but rather it must be added to hard work. She also enthusiastically encourages visitors to try their hand at creating their own artwork. Riyadh Season 2022 has played an important role in encouraging and attracting the most diverse range of skilled local and international artists to display their crafts.