DUBAI: US reality TV star and beauty mogul Kylie Jenner is starting 2023 in style. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The Kylie Cosmetics founder this week stepped out in two outfits by Maison Alaia, founded by late Tunisian couturier Azzedine Alaia. The 25-year-old trendsetter’s first outfit was an edgy retro flared coat, which she wore as a minidress. The coat was first designed in 1987.   It featured oversized beige collar and cuffs and an asymmetrical zipper. She paired her look with sheer tights, knee-high black leather boots, leather gloves, a fuzzy black bucket hat and a beige turtleneck top underneath the coat. Jenner’s second look dropped jaws. She wore a black bodysuit that featured a plunging neckline. She topped off her look with matching pointed-toe heels, a fur coat and leather gloves. Her hair was in a slick back bun and she opted for soft glam makeup with a bold red lip. A-list celebrities seem to be fans of Alaia’s catsuits. In July, Beyonce stepped out in a similar bodysuit to Jenner’s in her “Break My Soul” music video. Beyonce’s form-fitting ensemble featured elbow-high lace gloves. Jenner and her sister Kendall celebrated the start of the new year in Aspen, Colorado with a few family members and their close friends. Kylie posted a carousel of images on Instagram with her daughter Stormi Webster, and her best friends Hailey Bieber and Anastasia Karanikolaou. She captioned the post “2023.” Justin Bieber kept a low profile as he accompanied his wife Hailey.  A post shared by Kendall (@kendalljenner) Meanwhile, Kim, Khloe and Kourtney Kardashian, Kylie’s and Kendall’s older sisters were in Los Angeles. They snapped shots with their friends Malika and Khadijah Haqq. Alaia, the Tunisian designer, died from a heart attack aged 82 in November 2017. Following his unexpected passing, Alaia’s partners pledged to keep his brand alive. According to Carla Sozzani, one of Alaia’s closest collaborators, “there are enough products, samples and ideas in the archives to create new seasonal collections for generations.” Instead of referring to the designs as “collections,” the house now calls each new offering “Les Editions,” as they are renditions of the designer’s most iconic designs.