WWE has announced that The O2 in London will host Money in the Bank on Saturday, July 1, marking the first WWE Premium Live Event to be held in the UK capital in more than two decades. For the latest updates, follow us on Twitter @ArabNewsSport Money in the Bank will feature WWE’s biggest superstars and will also bring the “ladder matches” to the UK for the first time, with each winner receiving a briefcase containing a contract for a championship match at a time and place of their choosing any time within the next year. “The O2 is one of the world’s premier venues and the perfect home for Money in the Bank. We are excited to bring one of our ‘Big 5’ events to the UK and look forward to welcoming the WWE Universe to London on July 1,” said Dan Ventrelle, EVP, Talent at WWE. “We are honored to be hosting the first ever Money in the Bank event taking place in the UK here at The O2,” said Christian D’Acuna, senior programming director at The O2. “We’re looking forward to welcoming back WWE fans to The O2 this summer for an unforgettable night with some of WWE’s biggest Superstars.” The announcement follows the huge success of Cardiff’s Clash at the Castle in September 2022, the first major WWE stadium show to be held in the UK since 1992. Clash at the Castle broke many records at the time, including becoming the most-watched international premium live event in WWE history, with the largest European gate ever and the best-selling merchandise for a non-WrestleMania event. The premium live event received its name after the Money in the Bank ladder match, which had originally only taken place at WrestleMania. The Money in the Bank ladder match debuted at WrestleMania 21 in April 2005 and was featured at the next five WrestleMania events. Following WrestleMania 27 in March 2010, the match concept was spun off into its own event with the match no longer occurring at WrestleMania. The idea for the match was conceptualized by then-WWE wrestler and legend Chris Jericho and former writer Brian Gewitrz. The winner of this match has an opportunity to cash in the contract that guarantees them a title opportunity at a time and place of their choosing any time within the year they have won, beginning the night they win the briefcase.