DUBAI: Iraqi legend Kadhim Al-Sahir, Lebanese pianist Guy Manoukian and Spanish violinist virtuoso Ara Malikian have been tapped for a set of two intimate concerts at AlUla in Saudi Arabia. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle Al-Sahir, the “Caesar of Arabic music,” will perform at Maraya, the world’s largest mirrored building set in the desert canyon of Ashar Valley, on Jan. 19. Famed Lebanese pianist Guy Manoukian then teams up with celebrated Spanish violinist Ara Malikian for an extraordinary concert under the stars the following week at AlUlA Old Town on Jan. 26. A post shared by AlUla Moments لحظات العلا (@alulamoments) “Eid Al Ashaq” star Al-Sahir is a singer, poet and composer who has sold well over 100 million albums worldwide. He said: “Playing AlUla is a special occasion for me – it is one of the world’s most unique and beautiful locations and this incredible setting gives us all a wonderful chance to connect with the power of music. Performing at Maraya in front of my fans will be a special highlight in my career.” “My Land” star Manoukian has built up a huge following worldwide, and the piano man is looking forward to performing a special concert with Malikian, a Spanish violinist virtuoso of Lebanese origin and Armenian descent. A post shared by AlUla Moments لحظات العلا (@alulamoments) “There are few places as majestic or unique as the historical village of AlUla Old Town, anywhere in the world, and we look forward to putting on a special show which fits in with the full calendar of cultural events that are helping to create incredible memories at this wonderful location,” said Manoukian in a statement. Malikian added: “Performing at AlUla is a real privilege and I look forward once again to being part of a truly magical moment at AlUla Old Town with a wonderful audience in a special setting. AlUla is an incredible location and an important location in Saudi’s ever growing cultural offering. It is an honour to be part of this country’s musical and artistic journey.”