RIYADH: Weather forecasters on Friday issued another rain alert and warned of more thunderstorms to come for the Riyadh and Eastern regions as downpours continued to drench most parts of the Kingdom. The National Center of Meteorology said that moderate to torrential thundershowers accompanied by strong winds were set to hit the two provinces, especially in southern areas. Some parts of Najran, Jazan, Asir, Baha and Makkah would also see thundershowers, strong winds and possibly fog, while the bad weather would extend to southern parts of Madinah, the NCM said.   It also warned of fog in the Northern Borders, Tabuk, Jawf, Hail and Qassim regions. The mercury fell to a low of 9 degrees Celsius (48 degrees Fahrenheit) in Riyadh on Friday, with a high of 12 C. The wind speed was 5 kph, while the relative humidity topped out at 90 percent. A thick blanket of clouds over the capital’s skyline added to the gloomy picture and forced most residents to stay indoors. “Due to the inclement weather we are not going out, as the Civil Defense urged us to take precautions,” local man Abdullah Ahmed told Arab News.   After more than a week of heavy rain, it was “wise to stay home and spend some good time with family,” he said, adding that the slippery roads had also made driving more difficult. The NCM said that the surface wind movement in the Red Sea would be northeasterly to northwesterly at a speed of 15-40 kph in northern and central parts, and southeasterly to southwesterly at a speed of 20-45 kph in southern areas. That would rise to a maximum of 50 kph with accompanying thunderstorms. In the Arabian Gulf the surface wind movement would be northwesterly at a speed of 10-30 kph in northern areas, and northwesterly to northeasterly at a speed of 15-40 kph in southern parts, the forecasters said. That would rise to a maximum of 45 kph with accompanying thunderstorms. The Civil Defense Directorate said on Thursday that forecasts received from the NCM indicated “moderate to heavy rains will fall in the Riyadh region including Riyadh city, Al-Kharj, Al-Muzahimiyah, Al-Quwa’iyah, Al-Majma’ah, Al-Zulfi, Al-Ghat, Shaqra, Ramah, Al-Dawadmi, Afif, Al-Aflaj, Wadi Al-Dawasir, Layla from Thursday to Friday.” It added: “The Civil Defense calls upon everyone to take precautions and adhere to its instructions, and stay away from valleys, streams of torrents, dams, water pools, lighting poles and electrical boxes in the streets.”  