DUBAI: With a repertoire as extensive as Bella Hadid’s, it is hard to believe that the US Dutch Palestinian model has just starred in her first-ever campaign for luxury French label Louis Vuitton. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The 26-year-old supermodel, who has a worked with countless luxury brands including Burberry, Dior and Versace, shared pictures and videos on Instagram of her partnership with the French fashion house this week. The latest campaign is a collaboration between the luxury label and famed Japanese artist Yayoi Kusama, who uses art to talk about mental health.  A post shared by Bella (@bellahadid) In the pictures, Hadid posed wearing a pair of denim jeans with a Louis Vuitton handbag that had colorful splotches painted on. In one of the effects-heavy videos Hadid shared on her page, the model was lying on the floor and using a brush to add multi-colored blobs of paint to the air around her. In another multimedia clip, the catwalk star wore black pants with a black-and-white polka-dotted crop top. She sat on the floor with a red Louis Vuitton bag that had the same print as her top. “My first @louisvuitton campaign could not have been a better collaboration than with Yayoi Kusama,” Hadid wrote to her 57 million followers. “Not only am I the biggest fan, so intrigued with her story and life… but I connect with her deeply on healing mental struggles through artistic freedom and creation.  A post shared by Bella (@bellahadid) “I am so proud to do this campaign, and hope that one day I will be able to embrace Miss Kusama and tell her how important she is to not only me, but so many people struggling,” she added. “Proud is the only word I have. Proud. Thank you @louisvuitton." Apart from professional insights, Hadid took to Instagram Stories to share that she is back with her family after a few busy months.  A post shared by Bella (@bellahadid) She shared a heart-warming video of her father Mohamed Hadid, the real estate mogul, making her Palestinian breakfast. He prepared eggs and zaatar manakeesh for the model. “Wow… you outdid yourself,” Bella said in the short clip, to which her father replied: “No, I always do this for my babies.”