DUBAI: Iraqi social media star Deema Al-Asadi took to Instagram this week to share her first “milestone” of 2023. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The influencer, who boosts over 1 million followers on Instagram, revealed that she posed for a photoshoot with French luxury fashion house Chanel. “My first post for 2023 had to be special. A milestone in my fashion career posing for my favorite fashion house Chanel,” she wrote to her followers.  A post shared by Deema Al Asadi ديما الأسدي (@deemaalasadi) In the black-and-white picture Al-Asadi shared, she wore a windowpane set that featured a mini-skirt and a blazer. The Dubai-based star wore chunky Chanel bracelets with a bow-like chocker and a necklace with the brand’s iconic logo. The style maven and mother-of-one completed the outfit with a Chanel brooch. On her Stories, Al-Asadi shared older videos of herself unboxing the framed pictures that the brand’s team had sent her in December.  A post shared by Deema Al Asadi ديما الأسدي (@deemaalasadi) The photos were wrapped in white with a ribbon that had the maison’s famous logo in black. “I’m so excited,” she said in the short clip as she unwrapped the black-and-white frames. “Oh my god, I love it.” “A dream coming true,” she wrote. “I was so happy (and) blessed for this amazing opportunity.”  A post shared by Deema Al Asadi ديما الأسدي (@deemaalasadi) Al-Asadi’s social media friends, including Dubai Bling star Farhana Bodi, Iraqi influencer and entrepreneur Mina Al-Sheikhly and Egyptian actress Enjy Kiwan, quickly congratulated the blogger on her new brand collaboration. “Queen,” Al-Sheikhly wrote, while Iraqi influencer Shahd Al-Jumaily said: “Proud of you damdooma.” In February 2022, Al-Asadi walked her first runway at Milan Fashion Week for Italian label Elisabetta Franchi.  A post shared by Deema Al Asadi ديما الأسدي (@deemaalasadi) She wore a sequined black dress with a plunging neckline and cropped blazer. After the show, she took to Instagram to share the experience with her supporters. “Remember I told you guys I am here for something so exciting? So, your girl walked for Elisabetta Franchi today,” she wrote, sharing clips of the catwalk. Last month, Chanel tapped British Moroccan model Nora Attal, who is a Chanel fixture and has walked the runway for the storied brand a number of times over the years, to star in their holiday campaign.