RIYADH: The American Chamber of Commerce Saudi Arabia's Sports Committee in coordination with American Express organized a first-of-its-kind Ladies & Juniors Golf Tournament at the Safaa Golf Club in King Abdullah University of Science and Technology on Friday. For the latest updates, follow us on Twitter @ArabNewsSport The tournament aimed to promote not only the growth of ladies and junior golf activities, but also encourage people with disabilities to have an equal chance of competing. A golf clinic was also held for beginners willing to learn the basics to keep the game growing. The Safaa Golf Club staged a 9-hole tournament and concluded a par-3 fun event allowing beginners, children, and their parents to join the fun. Forrest Young, president of the AmCham Jeddah Chapter said: “This tournament provided the perfect venue to promote awareness and drive interest in the sport of golf to a wider audience. This is another step forward to integrate golf into the Saudi culture in alignment with Saudi golf strategic objectives.” He continued: “We look forward to continued success in supporting the further development of a Golf Ecosystem.” Maxwell Andrews, operations lead at KAUST and a chairman at AmCham Saudi Arabia said: “We believe the sport of golf can bring value to the bilateral business between American and Saudi companies.” “It's exciting for us to be hosting the AmCham Saudi Arabia AMEX Ladies and Juniors Golf Tournament at KAUST to promote the game and supplement Vision 2030's goal towards a better quality of life,” he added. “I am delighted to have been given the opportunity to project and manage the golf program. This kind of event shows how far the country has progressed sports-wise throughout the years. Shohreh Shadmand, Golf Program Director at AmCham Saudi Arabia Sports Committee said: “This is just the first of the three golf events that we are delighted to have launched for the year as we truly believe in the huge potential the sport of golf can carry in the region.”