DUBAI: After being crowned Miss Universe Lebanon, Yasmina Zaytoun is all set to be one of just two contestants from the Middle East at the Jan. 14 Miss Universe pageant in New Orleans, US. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle As the big date approaches, the 20-year-old model and journalism student took to social media to post snapshots from her time so far in the US.  A post shared by YASMINA ZAYTOUN (@yasminazaytoun) From workout routines to workshops and time spent with the other contestants, Zaytoun has made sure to keep her fans and followers in the know as she prepares for the pageant. In her latest Instagram post, Zaytoun ⁠—  who is from Kfarchouba, a village in southern Lebanon ⁠— can be seen posing in an elegant black dress. “Girls! Know your worth. Then add tax,” she captioned the image.  A post shared by YASMINA ZAYTOUN (@yasminazaytoun) The 20-year-old model is an ambassador for the Children Cancer Center of Lebanon, a leading national organization dedicated to the treatment and support of kids and adolescents with cancer. Zaytoun is also a motivational speaker and likes to pepper her social media posts with inspirational quotes.  A post shared by YASMINA ZAYTOUN (@yasminazaytoun) She began her own social media show “With Yasmina Show” in 2020. The show has featured well-known personalities such as TV presenter Lana Daoud, politician Paula Yacoubian, and actress and influencer Enjy Kiwan, Passionate about her country, Zaytoun hopes the Miss Universe pageant will shed more light on Lebanon. “I will tell the universe about a country that survived and chose life over everything,” she wrote on Instagram last week. Zaytoun was crowned Miss Lebanon 2022 in a glittering ceremony in Beirut in July last year, almost four years after the last edition of the pageant in Lebanon.  A post shared by YASMINA ZAYTOUN (@yasminazaytoun) “This is the best thing that happened in my life ... my dream has finally come true,” Zaytoun said on stage, after being crowned Miss Lebanon. "I dedicate my victory to my parents, for sure." Zaytoun beat first runner-up, Maya Aboul Hosn; Jacintha Rached, who was named second runner-up; Lara Hraoui who came fourth; and Dalal Hoballah, who took fifth place. The highly anticipated 71st Miss Universe will feature almost 90 women from around the globe vying for the coveted title. The evening will culminate with the 70th Miss Universe, Harnaaz Sandhu, who brought the title back to India for the first time in 21 years, crowning her successor.