RIYADH: Diriyah Nights is attracting swathes of music and art lovers, foodies, and shoppers at its local and high-end international stores at the heart of the historic area. The second edition of Diriyah Season, which will run until Feb. 22, features a wide range of activities for all age groups including artistic performances and live music from some of the top stars in the Arab world.   One of the visitors, Muneera Mohammed, told Arab News: “I just bought this abaya from a local store called The Loum, and I’m going to visit again for sure. I’m in love with the atmosphere.” Kholoud Al-Qarni, another visitor, was impressed by the art and Eastern music. “I’ve been everywhere in Riyadh, but this place is magical. What I like is that they have local Saudi brands, like this place called Jeed, which has beautiful, rare jewelry pieces that can compete with international brands. I promised myself to buy a New Year’s gift, and I’m glad that I found Jeed,” Al-Qarni said. • Diriyah Nights, the second edition of the Diriyah Season, will run until Feb. 22. Residents of Riyadh are spending their evenings enjoying food, music and retail therapy under the night sky of Diriyah. The festival has given a boost to local Saudi businesses. • By 2030, the Diriyah Gate Development Authority’s plans for the historical site are set to transform Diriyah into a cultural and educational hub for all. It is expected to create at least 55,000 jobs for Saudis and include a series of museums and cultural and academic institutes. • The Diriyah Season’s calendar includes the Spanish Super, from Jan. 11 to 15, and the Italian Supercup on Jan. 18. Another local Saudi store, Toques Elegantes, is here for the second season. “We have gold-plated accessories and natural gems, and we have leather goods. It’s our second time in Diriyah, and it has been wonderful so far,” Manal Ibrahim, a sales representative for the brand, said.   Rotana Audio Co. is hosting musical evenings called, “Diriyah Nights Sessions.” The dates and names of the artists who will participate will be announced soon. Tickets can be bought at https://diriyahseason.sa/ar. What I like is that they have local Saudi brands, like this place called Jeed, which has beautiful, rare jewelry pieces that can compete with international brands. Kholoud al-Qarni, Visitor Other interesting events at Diriyah include the Spanish Super, which will take place from Jan. 11-15 and will see Real Madrid, Barcelona, Valencia, and Real Betis locking horns with each other, and the Italian Supercup (EA Sports Supercup), on Jan. 18, which will see AC Milan and Inter Milan compete. 