RIYADH: Golf in the Kingdom is set to embark on the next phase of its growth with the appointment of Noah Alireza as new CEO of Golf Saudi, who succeeds Majed Al-Sorour. For the latest updates, follow us on Twitter @ArabNewsSport  Alireza, a former member of the Saudi Arabian national team who has represented his country at the Asian Games, has a wealth of experience. He has also been a strategy adviser to some of Saudi Arabia’s most influential public and private entities, is a lifelong student of the game, and a graduate of Brown University. “I’m honored to start this role and be part of the future of the Golf ecosystem in Saudi,” said Alireza. “Golf Saudi is set to deliver significant initiatives and programs aligned with the objectives of Vision 2030 to improve quality of life and sports mass participation. My goal is to ensure that the acceleration and activation of these create a highly significant impact on the nation.” “The task at hand is to further enhance the country’s masterplan for golf and, in hand with private- and public-sector bodies, create an unparalleled ecosystem which derives incredible value for the people of Saudi Arabia and visitors from around the world. “I appreciate the trust of Golf Saudi’s board for giving me this opportunity, and I would like to thank my predecessor, Mr. Majed Al-Sorour, for his role during the foundational phase of the organization.” Al-Sorour, whose four years at the helm saw unprecedented progress in Saudi Arabia’s golfing landscape, will remain as board member of Golf Saudi, board member and deputy chairman of the Saudi Golf Federation and secretary of the Arab Golf Federation. Since its formation in 2018, Golf Saudi has created opportunities for more people to experience the benefits of golf. In the last year alone, over 50,000 individuals have been introduced to golf through a wide variety of activities. The organization has placed equal emphasis on the development of a sustainable ecosystem for the sport, creating the world’s first National Sustainability Strategy for golf, centered on environmental, social and economic impacts. This has included alignment with the United Nations’ Sport for Climate Action Framework and the creation of higher education programs in collaboration with the Club Managers’ Association of Europe and the National Training Center for Facilities and Hospitality Management. The announcement comes on the cusp of an historic season, with no fewer than four international men’s and women’s events set to take place in Saudi Arabia in 2023, starting next week at the PIF Saudi International, powered by SoftBank Investment Advisers.