DAVOS: Youth Majlis are back at this year’s World Economic Forum Annual Meeting in Davos, Switzerland, to offer young people a platform in the global conversation, the Mohammed bin Salman Foundation (Misk) announced on Monday. Under the theme “Generation Transformation,” Misk is hosting the only youth-focused pavilion at the WEF Summit with the aim of creating lasting positive change by harnessing the strengths of all generations. The Youth Majlis will provide a platform to explore collaborative solutions to some of the world’s most pressing issues — from inclusive economic growth to ambitious climate action. Omar Najjar, Misk’s chief program officer, told Arab News: “In a world that is becoming increasingly fragmented, it’s more important than ever to find ways to cooperate, work together, and harness the power of youth. “Our decision to bring the Youth Majlis back to the World Economic Forum is a powerful step in this direction, placing young people at the heart of the global conversation and empowering them to take bold action for a better future.” More than 35 leaders and decision makers from the US, China, Singapore, South Africa, India, Egypt, Indonesia, and Saudi Arabia are convening at the Youth Majlis to promote an overhauled, youth-focused approach to global cooperation. The return of the Youth Majlis is also an important step toward advancing Saudi Arabia’s vision for a more prosperous and sustainable future. During the 2022 WEF Annual Meeting, Misk’s Youth Majlis welcomed more than 1,700 visitors from 42 countries, 14 heads of state and ministers, 200 VIP guests, and 25 speakers. Since its inception in 2011, Misk has enabled young people to represent the Kingdom in various international forums and programs to solve complex global challenges and actively participate in global citizenry. More than 280 students graduated from the Misk Fellowship Program to work on more than 40 projects dedicated to solving challenges related to the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Misk celebrated its sixth edition of the Misk Global Forum in November, where it welcomed more than 28,000 participants from 64 countries. The foundation invests in empowering the youth of Saudi Arabia in education and entrepreneurship, culture, and the creative arts, with science and technology as supporting fields. It pursues its goals by designing programs and partnering with local and global organizations in diverse fields through an array of incubators.