Riyadh: Ever since her arrival in Saudi Arabia, Argentine model Georgina Rodriguez has made a splash with her impeccable fashion taste and penchant for unique makeup looks — and it has set off a frenzy on social media as fans from Saudi Arabia and beyond rush to copy her style on TikTok and Instagram. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle A post shared by Georgina Rodríguez (@georginagio) Over the past week, social media platforms have been choked with beauty and fashion influencers giving detailed breakdowns of Rodriguez’s iconic makeup look from her first appearance in Riyadh, when her long-time partner footballer Cristiano Ronaldo was officially presented by Al-Nassr as the Saudi club’s new signing.   Amassing millions of views, beauty aficionados from Saudi Arabia and beyond shared their take on Rodriguez’s pink-hued makeup look, complete with rose-flushed cheeks and the on-trend brownie glazed lip, consisting of brown-lined lips layered with high shine gloss.   Content creators shared video tutorials in both Arabic and English.   While she may have tempered her more daring sartorial choices, the 28-year old model also has admirers flocking to recreate her sartorial style.   For those who would like to follow further in Rodriguez’s fashionable footsteps, we have broken down her look from her first appearance in Saudi Arabia. In keeping with the cold weather and modest sensibilities of her host country, Rodriguez opted for a graceful maroon velvet abaya from Qatari brand Dollab Line. Rodriguez completed the look with a black Max Mara turtleneck and classic bootleg blue jeans by Italian label Elisabetta Franchi. When it came to accessories, the model chose the Hermes Rose Pourpre Shiny Niloticus Crocodile Birkin and chunky diamond jewelry by Italian jeweler Pasquale Bruni. Her latest outing in Saudi Arabia was not the first time Rodriguez was spotted wearing an Arab label, however. In Doha last month for the 2022 FIFA World Cup, she opted for a sage green abaya by Qatari brand 1309 Studios while cheering for Portugal at Lusail Stadium.