RIYADH: Visitors at Riyadh Season can tap into the spirit of adventure with Ninja Warrior KSA in the Boulevard World zone. The interactive event lets visitors overcome obstacles and motion challenges to win the title of Ninja Warrior. The activity, which relies on physical fitness, has been adapted from famous US TV show American “Ninja Warrior”, in which participants must put their physical prowess to the test and reach the finish line. With an atmosphere of excitement, enthusiasm and adventure, 250 participants attempt five challenges including climbing, jumping, avoiding moving boards, trying not to fall and physical strength. The entire challenge takes about 60 minutes. Riyadh Season includes many Arab experiences, such as Ramez and Masameer, in addition to international experiences, such as Crystal Maze in Boulevard Riyadh City, and four experiences adapted from various Netflix series in the new zone, Imagination Park. The zone receives visitors from 3 p.m. until 11 p.m. Boulevard World tickets can be booked to enjoy the Ninja Warrior KSA experience via ticketmx.riyadhseason.sa/en/d/2430/boulevard-world. Boulevard World is a prominent zone in Riyadh Season with 11 stations. It also includes the largest spherical theater in the world and entertainment experiences that suit all tastes. Boulevard World brings together several fun cities including Superhero City, Japanese Anime City and Fun Zone City, the children’s entertainment area that turns imagination into reality. Riyadh Season 2022 contains 15 diverse entertainment zones that feature everything from cable car transportation and cloud-embracing lounges to international Cirque du Soleil shows and sporting events such as WWE and the Riyadh Season Cup, which brings together the Paris Saint-Germain team with stars from Al-Hilal and Al-Nassr football clubs. There are also 65 days of fireworks, a range of Saudi and Arab plays, concerts, local and international exhibitions, and a variety of other events for families and individuals.