LONDON: Newcastle United are keen to do business this month — that’s the view of head coach Eddie Howe after the Magpies drew yet another Premier League blank. For the latest updates, follow us on Twitter @ArabNewsSport While clean sheets have been welcome — that’s now six on the bounce in the Premier League — the goals have dried up somewhat. Newcastle have netted just once in their last four top-flight games — and that was an 89th-minute Alexander Isak winner against Fulham. The departure of ever-reliable Chris Wood to Nottingham Forest on loan has left a space in the 25-man squad. And Howe is keen to see that gap filled, sooner rather than later. “As a manager, you always want more,” he said following the 0-0 draw with Crystal Palace at Selhurst Park. “You always want more options. But I’ve got no issue with the squad strength or size. I think the point I was making yesterday was that if we got injuries, we’d be very light, and we’re keen to do business. “We’re keen to bring a player in that can help us, but, as we know in this window, and I’ve said many times, there’s no guarantee that will happen.” One player who has suffered for United is Callum Wilson. The Newcastle No. 9 usually tops the goalscoring charts at St. James’ Park but has now gone seven games without hitting the back of the net. “Knowing Callum, no. He’s had very limited training time. He had an illness (after the World Cup). With Callum, he’s missed big chunks of training, and I think that always affects your sharpness as a player, regardless of position. Callum’s worked really hard for the team, and knowing him as I do the goals are just around the corner.” Speaking about the game itself, and ahead of the Carabao Cup semifinal trip to Southampton, Howe added: “Difficult game but we played well. “We got into dangerous positions and created chances. We had moments in both halves; if there was a team that was going to win it, I thought it would be us, but we had to credit Nick Pope for a great save. He didn’t have a lot to do today. He’s been great since he came in and we see that in training every day. “The changing room is disappointed we didn’t win. We wanted more control in the second half; there were moments the ball flashed across the box and nobody was on the end of it. There are things to improve for us, but we are seeing continued improvement. We are not firing as much as we’d like, but we are working on that.”