LONDON: Poor participation at a rally called by the Iran-backed Houthis on Friday confirms the lack of political support for the militia, Yemeni Minister of Information, Culture and Tourism Moammar Al-Eryani said on Saturday. The Houthis called for its supporters to take to the streets in Yemen’s northwestern city of Saada and other areas to protest against the internationally-recognized government. Al-Eryani said the lack of participation in the event confirmed that the militia’s allegations had little support, and reflected its full responsibility for deteriorating economic and humanitarian conditions.  1-Poor participation in the rally called for by terrorist Houthi militia affiliated with Iran, yesterday, confirms lack of political support of the militia, &failure of its allegations, incl the siege, &its full responsibility for deteriorating economic &humanitarian conditions. — معمر الإرياني (@ERYANIM) January 7, 2023 “Incidents that followed the humanitarian truce in April 2022, and the Houthis’ rejection to implement its obligations, i.e. opening inter-governorate roads, lifting the Taiz siege, and allocating oil revenues in the port of Hodeidah to pay salaries, confirmed the Houthis’ aggression and its siege,” he said in a series of tweets. Al-Eryani added that the Houthi militia thwarted the humanitarian truce and impeded its expansion and stabilizing efforts in October 2022. He said that it had also undermined calls for peace, organized military parades, and escalated hostile rhetoric and terrorist activities that threatened regional and international peace and security. “Houthi militia took advantage of the stalemate to expand its repressive policies against citizens, confiscated money and assets, imposed a code of conduct for employees, restricted movement of women, imposed illegal levies on companies and individuals, and doubled burdens on citizens,” he said. Al-Eryani added that the Houthi militia escalated crimes and violations, abducted and persecuted media, journalists, and celebrities on social media platforms, and issued death threats against dissidents in Saada and Al-Mahweet, following increasing calls for a popular uprising. He added: “These calls reflect growing popular anger due to its practices, confirming its failure and corruption to all, including its supporters, its responsibility for the deteriorating conditions, and the absence of a national project, as it is just a proxy controlled by Iran.”