RIYADH: Oman-based Al Nakheel has inked a second phase deal with the National Company for Construction Works to develop roads and infrastructure of the $650 million Al Nakheel Integrated Tourism Complex. The Al Nakheel Integrated Tourism Complex is spread over 500,000 sq. m in Al Rumais in the wilayat of Barka, Oman, and is currently being developed by Alargan Towell Investment Co.. The agreement was signed by Mohammed Moosa Al Abri, CEO of Al Nakheel, and Wissam Al Aani, Executive Representative of NCCW. Al Nakheel Integrated Tourism Complex is an initiative by Oman to strengthen the tourism sector in the nation, in line with the government’s Vision 2040. One of the major attractions of this tourism project is a unique water body named Crystal Lagoon covering an area of 51,000 sq. m. “The signing reflects our commitment to develop the Al Nakheel project and to present new concepts to buyers, investors and tourists, citizens and residents, to support the Government’s endeavors toward achieving Oman Vision 2040,” said Al Abri. He added: “We believe the project will attract local and foreign investments across various components of the project, create added value and contribute to the gross domestic product of the sultanate.” NWWC’s Al Ani said that the Al Nakheel Integrated Tourism Complex will be one of the most prominent tourism and real estate projects in the region. “The development of the project will empower the growth of Oman’s tourism and real estate sector and deliver a positive impact on the national economy,” added Al Ani. The first construction package for the Al Nakheel project is underway and includes earthwork for the roads and the leveling of the land. The second stage will consist of enabling works for the Crystal Lagoon, roads, and infrastructure package. Amid attempts to diversify its economy, the number of visitors arriving to Oman reached 2.5 million by the end of November 2022, signaling strong growth in the sultanate’s tourism sector, according to the data from National Center for Statistics and Information. The data indicated that citizens from the Gulf Cooperation Council countries were among the top nationalities who visited Oman, followed by Indian, Yemeni, Pakistani and German nationals. Meanwhile, another report released by NCSI suggested that Oman’s Wilayat of Al Jabal Al Akhdar, also known as the Green Mountain, attracted as many as 208,423 people in 2022.