LONDON: Video-streaming platform Starzplay announced on Thursday the launch of its first Arabic-language original series created in collaboration with Academy Award-winning Emirati production company Image Nation Abu Dhabi. The new show, “Kaboos,” features five standalone episodes and has been described as a modern-day retelling of Arab folklore. Nadim Dada, VP of programming and content acquisition at Starzplay, said the show is “our biggest content asset this year, our very first Arabic language original, and we are very excited to roll out the production across the Middle East.” Filmed across Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Egypt and the UAE, the series takes viewers on a journey through urban legends of the region, with spine-chilling modern takes on stories inspired by local mythology.  المجهول لم يعد يطاردنا في الظلام فقط
ترقبوا الرعب الحقيقي على #STARZPLAY #كابوس#أعمال_ستارزبلاي_الأصلية#ستارزبلاي#رعب #حكايات #أساطير #KABOOS #STARZPLAYORIGINAL pic.twitter.com/UnbuwW8Zgp — STARZPLAY (@STARZPlayArabia) January 24, 2023 The series, which spans a variety of genres from classic horror stories to noir psychological thrillers, features leading directors from across the region. Emirati filmmakers Hana Kazim and Majid Al-Ansari, Iraqi director Yasir Al-Yasiri, Egyptian filmmaker and visual artist Ahmed Khaled, and Los Angeles-based Bahraini director Hala Matar each directed an episode. “Image Nation Abu Dhabi constantly looks for challenging new projects that enable regional filmmakers to share the region’s contemporary heritage and culture with the world through Arabic-language content,” Ben Ross, chief content officer, said. “Kaboos” balances terrifying horror scenes with storylines that explore human nature, offering nostalgic tales to Arab audiences, while introducing global viewers to the eerie world of Arab folklore, he added. The series, which has been produced by Al-Yasiri’s and Mansoor Al Feeli’s media company, Abu Dhabi-based Starship Entertainment, is set to stream on Starzplay from Feb. 9.