RIYADH: The King Abdulaziz Foundation for Research and Archives is taking part in the 54th Cairo International Book Fair. Darah pavilion boasts scientific, cultural, and intellectual publications to highlight the history, geography, and heritage of the Arabian Peninsula and Saudi Arabia. The fair, which is being held at the Egypt International Exhibition Center, brings together more than 1,000 publishers and visitors from about 50 countries, while in excess of 500 cultural events will be held on the sidelines of the showcase, which runs until Feb. 6. Abdulrahman Al-Beiz, who is in charge of the Darah section, said that the pavilion has some 85 titles on Shariah sciences, the geography of Saudi Arabia and the Arabian Peninsula, Saudi-Egyptian relations, and publications that focus on the history of the Grand Mosque in Makkah. He added that the pavilion also houses more recent works, as well as a collection of popular and prestigious publications, including an atlas of Makkah holy sites, in Arabic and English, along with books that tell the Kingdom’s history, and accounts of travelers’ tours in the Arabian Peninsula. The pavilion has some 85 titles on Shariah sciences, the geography of Saudi Arabia and the Arabian Peninsula, Saudi-Egyptian relations, and publications that focus on the history of the Grand Mosque in Makkah. Al-Beiz also referred to the increasing demand for the Darah’s books, noting that some had been so popular they had sold out, reflecting an enthusiasm on the public’s part to learn more about the Kingdom’s history and culture. He added that the Darah’s history center had produced about 22 publications highlighting the Hijaz area, the Two Holy Mosques, and other places from the Kingdom’s history. Meanwhile, the pavilion of the Saudi Ministry of Islamic Affairs, Dawah and Guidance has noted the huge turnout of visitors at the fair. The Kingdom’s pavilion, which aims to showcase Saudi Arabia’s care for Muslims around the world, has been praised by those visiting it, who have also expressed their appreciation for the country’s efforts in spreading moderate Islam and promoting a culture of tolerance and coexistence.  