RIYADH: National flag carrier Saudi Airlines have announced that Stoffel Vandoorne, the reigning ABB FIA Formula E world champion, would become their official ambassador for the new season. For the latest updates, follow us on Twitter @ArabNewsSport Saudia are already official partners of the all-electric series and confirmed the new collaboration with the 30-year-old Belgian driver ahead of the Diriyah E-Prix double header this weekend. “I’m excited to partner with Saudia as their ambassador this season,” said Vandoorne. “In addition to our love for Formula E, we share a passion for discovering destinations and creating memories that last a lifetime. Saudi Arabia is an incredible country; rich in culture, events and experiences and it’s a pleasure to join them in showcasing it, and Formula E, to the world.” The ambassadorship and return of the ABB FIA Formula E World Championship to Diriyah also comes as Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman has announced that a dedicated project to boost and develop this town would be part of the state’s Vision 2030 plan which aims to diversify the Kingdom’s economy. According to the World Tourism Organization, Saudi Arabia is the country that received the most tourists in the Arab world, surpassing pre-pandemic figures by 121 percent and seeing more than 18 million foreign visitors. A key goal of Vision 2030 and Saudia is for sport to take centerstage in Saudi Arabia’s transformation and diversification efforts. In just a few years, the country has become home to a flourishing sports events ecosystem, playing host to international gatherings and tournaments that include boxing and football. In addition to providing employment opportunities for home-grown talent and attracting foreign investment, the global appetite for sports tourism is a primary driver of this mission with a positive impact on expanding the tourism product. Moataz Alandijani, GM Partnerships & Sponsorships at Saudia, said: “We’re delighted to announce Stoffel Vandoorne as an official ambassador of Saudia. As a leader in his field and the current champion of the ABB FIA Formula E, our partnership is based on shared values of progress and innovation. “We’re looking forward to building on this important collaboration throughout Season 9 of the ABB FIA Formula E World Championship as Saudia fulfils its role as ‘the wings of Vision 2023’ and builds upon its position as one of the world’s leading airlines.”