ABU DHABI: The Abu Dhabi Waste Management Company, also known as Tadweer, has signed five contracts worth more than 2 billion dirhams ($545 million) covering operations in Abu Dhabi and Al-Ain, the Emirates News Agency reported. The six-year contracts cover the collection of solid waste, transportation services, public cleaning services, and waste container management. They were signed with Alphamed Abu Dhabi, Terberg RosRoca Vehicle Manufacturing, Beeah Sharjah Environment Company, Averda Waste Management, and Nael and Bin Harmal Hydroexport at the EcoWaste 2023 Exhibition and Forum at the Abu Dhabi National Exhibition Center. They aim to improve the quality and environmental friendliness of services through the provision of electrical equipment for waste collection and transportation, cleaning services for main roads and automatic sweeping, and employee-training programs that conform to international standards. “Tadweer is constantly seeking to cooperate and establish partnerships with global stakeholders, to exchange best practices, success stories and innovative solutions for the sector,” said CEO Ali Al-Dhaheri. “Through these partnerships, we aim to join our efforts and utilize the best practices to overcome waste-management challenges, by raising the public’s awareness and addressing challenges related to waste collection, transportation and treatment. “Tadweer plays a key role in supporting sustainability by reducing the amount of waste disposed of in landfills, investing in advanced technologies and solutions, and recycling waste by utilizing available resources, in accordance with the best standards and practices.” He added that “the company is committed to leading the change in waste management, providing an integrated waste-management system … and supporting the energy and facilities sector. This can be achieved by executing innovative projects and initiatives and utilizing the latest technologies to realize the nation’s ambitions to adopt a circular economy.” Tadweer said it is also investigating opportunities for collaboration in the selective conversion of solid municipal waste into sustainable aviation fuel, as well as the possibility of converting waste into other fuels and sustainable chemical materials.