DUBAI: US model Kendall Jenner, US rapper Jay-Z and British singer Liam Payne were spotted on Friday celebrating the opening of Atlantis The Royal in Dubai this weekend. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The stars are in the UAE city for an eventful weekend. Jenner wore a green Victoria Beckham dress that Palestinian Dutch supermodel Bella Hadid debuted on the runway. The dress, from the designer’s spring 2023 ready-to-wear collection, featured flouncy sleeves and was clinched to her waist.  A post shared by Kendall (@kendalljenner) Jenner wore the dress the same way Hadid debuted it on the red carpet, with black latex gloves and boots. Payne wore a grey suit as he posed next to Kate Cassidy. The Friday event was also attended by US reality television personality Jonathan Cheban, influencer Hofit Golan, the “Dubai Bling” star Farhana Bodi, Egyptian actress Enjy Kiwan, the “Real Housewives of Dubai” star Caroline Stanbury, Lebanese influencer and entrepreneur Karen Wazen and more. On Saturday, the VIP guests, coming from around the world, will pose on the red carpet and attend a gala dinner.  A post shared by Liam Payne (@liampayne) The A-list celebrities are rumored to include Emirati-Yemeni singer Balqees Fathi, US model Olivia Culpo, Indian actor Aamir Khan, British actress Michelle Keegan and the “Emily In Paris” star Ashley Park. The top-notch list of invitees will attend US superstar Beyonce’s private concert, which will be her first full-length show in four years. The backdrop of her show will be the “School of Athens” painting by Italian Renaissance artist Raphael.  I’ll take LOTSSSSSS of videos !!! Prepare to be SICK https://t.co/xxqG2kcJ3i — BR (@breerunway) January 19, 2023 British rapper Bree Runway took to Twitter to comfort fans who are not able to attend saying that “invited guests will be allowed to take content,” meaning Beyonce’s supporters can get a sneak peak at the event. “Soooooooo excited to see Beyonce!!!!” she tweeted. “I’ll take LOTSSSSSS of videos!!! Prepare to be SICK.” After Beyonce’s highly anticipated performance, guests will be treated to a breathtaking fireworks show and an afterparty that will be headlined by music supergroup Swedish House Mafia.