DUBAI: French Algerian model Loli Bahia has been named as one of Yves Saint Laurent Beauty’s brand ambassadors. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The rising star, who is based in Paris, took to Instagram to share the news with her 62,000 followers, sharing a picture from her latest shoot with the French luxury label. “Super happy to be one of the YSL Beauty ambassadors,” she wrote on Instagram Stories.  A post shared by YSL Beauty Official (@yslbeauty) The 19-year-old model posed wearing a black leather suit with a black top. Her makeup was soft with a neutral matte lip. In the pictures shared on YSL Beauty’s Instagram page, Bahia posed holding the brand’s Slim Matte lipstick, which are said to be pigmented, long-lasting and weightless. Bahia starred in the campaign alongside Chinese model Tao Ye — who is signed with Heroes Model Management — who was also announced as one of the brand’s ambassadors.  A post shared by @lolibahiaa YSL Beauty congratulated the two stars by sharing pictures of the campaign on its Instagram Stories. “Welcome to the YSL Beauté family,” the three consecutive Stories read. At just 19, Bahia is quickly shaping up to be one of the most in-demand models in the industry, becoming a runway fixture in just a few months after a breakthrough Spring 2022 fashion season, where she walked in 65 shows. The catwalk star has strutted down the catwalks of a host of prestigious labels, including Louis Vuitton, Chanel, Givenchy, Lanvin and Valentino, to name but a few.  A post shared by @lolibahiaa Bahia, who is signed to Women Management Paris, made her runway debut in 2020 at Louis Vuitton’s Fall 2021 show. She would go on to star in the Parisian luxury house’s advertising campaign for Fall 2021. She has also featured in campaigns for Saint Laurent, Courreges and Max Mara in addition to starring on the cover of Vogue Italia. One of her recent campaigns was with British luxury label Burberry. She nabbed a starring role in the Autumn/Winter 2022 campaign. In the pictures, Bahia was spotted wearing multiple outfits including a red pleated dress, a beige trench coat with chain details, a pink set and a beige skirt and top with the brand’s logo printed on it.