RIYADH: The 2023 Social Responsibility Forum will take place on Feb. 1-2 in Riyadh, with the presence and participation of a large number of representatives of governmental and semi-governmental sectors, CEOs of companies and institutions, and heads of local authorities and organizations.
The forum will be held under the patronage of Ahmad Al-Rajhi, minister of human resources and social development.
It will include five sessions over two days, with the participation of 22 speakers from the government, private and nonprofit sectors.
Ahmed Al-Zahrani, founder and member of the board of directors of the Social Responsibility Association, said social responsibility is no longer “a mere moral obligation, but … a national and developmental duty towards society and building the human being at the center of sustainable development.”
The association was launched by the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Development in cooperation with the Saudi Standards, Metrology and Quality Organization.
Abdullah Al-Muhanna, CEO of the association, said the forum will highlight the main role of all institutions and sectors in the work of social responsibility, reflect future policies and strategies for social responsibility, and review experiences to develop innovative initiatives that serve the needs of society.
Al Zahrani explained: “The association contributes to raising awareness on social responsibility, enhancing the role of corporations in activating it, and supporting the nonprofit sector and enabling it to achieve a developmental impact that is positively reflected in promoting Saudi society.”
Saud Al-Subaie, chairman of the association’s board of directors, said social responsibility is one of the goals of the Kingdom’s Vision 2030 reform plan, and the necessary preparations for the forum have been completed.
The Council of Ministers’ declaration of March 23 annually as a day of social responsibility in Saudi Arabia is an endeavor to confirm the importance of social responsibility.