SHARJAH: The seventh Xposure International Photography Festival, set to take place in the UAE next month, has been billed as the biggest and best yet.
Organized by the Sharjah Government Media Bureau, the event will take place at the Expo Center Sharjah from Feb. 9 to 15 and will feature 74 world-renowned photographers and a display of 1,794 prints, reported the Emirates News Agency on Tuesday.
The agenda includes 68 solo and group exhibitions, 41 talks, 63 workshops and focus groups, 50 portfolio reviews, a conservation summit, a photo fair, an equipment trade show, book signings, and an awards ceremony.
Last year’s event saw a 125 percent increase in public attendance, making Xposure one of the most significant photography fairs in the world.
The festival is a premier destination for professionals and hobbyists alike, catering to various industries and offering a chance to learn, network, and be inspired.
Photography is used in many sectors including by architects, film directors, advertising executives, and artists, as well as being popular among amateurs and mobile phone users.
Attended by top international photographers and industry experts, the festival creates a community of art enthusiasts and professionals and provides opportunities for them to network and learn from one another.
Visitors will be invited to explore new worlds through the lenses of celebrated photographers and experience new perspectives.
Tariq Saeed Allay, director general of the Sharjah Government Media Bureau, said: “At Xposure, we have an enduring belief in the power of photography to impact the lives of people and the world around us. We highlight the power and role of photography in forging connections and expanding perspectives.
“Over the years, Xposure has gained a formidable reputation as a comprehensive and global platform for photography and film experts to share their experiences, stimulate the viewers’ consciousness, and leave a lasting impression on their peers.”
He noted that the festival offered not only galleries and exhibitions, but education and inspiration in a celebration of creativity and visual storytelling.
“At Xposure, creativity is valued highly along with the unique stories photographers have to share. We strive to create a space where attendees can learn, be inspired, and be challenged by the exceptional visual storytelling of renowned artists.
“Our goal is to support the growth and development of talent in the region and to provide a platform for education, networking, and creativity,” he added.
This year’s festival will culminate in awards ceremonies recognizing the best in photography and film at the International Photography and Film Awards, and The Independent and Freelance Photojournalist Awards, which have received more than 17,000 submissions.