RIYADH: Boulevard Mix provided an impressive interlude for music lovers, taking place from Jan. 11-13 as part of the entertainment activities of Riyadh Season 2022. With talented professional and amateur artists performing live in four designated corners of the arena, Boulevard Mix got everyone in the party mood and helped to create the perfect musical backdrop for fun.   The musical extravaganza gave the opportunity for artists and groups — including Eman Abdelghani, Ahmed Saad, Zina Emad, Big Sam, Mohamed Hasan, Sabreen Al Najili, Disco Misr, Massar Egbari, Sharmoofers, and others — to entertain the crowd and create the party mood. Impressive vocals, dreamy melodies, and rhythmic beats set the scene at the four Boulevard Mix sites, which included the fountain, the square, and the studio, where Saad, the singer of the hit song “Wasa3 Wasa3,” performed to the delight of all present. The Egyptian band Disco Misr, whose latest single is “Ahla Wahda ft. Aziz Maraka,” were delighted to be performing in front of a Saudi audience once again. Saudi Arabia in recent years has opened up significant opportunities for the region’s musicians and artists to perform their craft in the spotlight. The band told Arab News: “We get excited about performing in Saudi Arabia every time, but this time it was different because it was our first time in Boulevard City, so thanks for having us.   “It’s our fifth time in Saudi Arabia. We've been to AlUla, Jeddah, and Riyadh, and the audience was so friendly. “They had fun, and were so open with us.” Massar Egbari were another Egyptian band happy to return to Saudi to perform. The group previously performed twice in Jeddah. The band said: “Last week we were scheduled to have a concert, but the weather was stormy, so we had to postpone it to today. The artists and groups performing for the Boulevard Mix music festival included Egyptian bands Disco Misr and Massar Egbari. Eman Abdelghani, Ahmed Saad, Zena Emad and Mohamed Hasan also performed for the audiences. “Today it rained during the concert, but we kept playing, and we were happy that the people stayed even during the rain.”   Boulevard Mix is the latest event to represent the changing cultural and entertainment landscape of the Kingdom. The event is designed to bring together devoted music lovers and audiences seeking fun in the same space to enjoy live performances. Saudi Arabia in recent years has opened up significant opportunities for the region’s musicians and artists to perform their craft in the spotlight. 