JEDDAH: The King Abdulaziz and His Companions Foundation for Giftedness and Creativity (Mawhiba) recently signed a memorandum of cooperation with King Abdulaziz University in Jeddah. The deal is aimed at offering joint quality programs for gifted students, disseminating talent and innovation in society, and raising the level of gifted students’ discovery and sponsorship. Inked by the university’s vice president, Hana Abdullah Ali Al-Nuaim, and Mawhiba’s secretary-general, Amal Al-Hazzaa, the accord included areas of cooperation and exchange of experiences. It stipulated Mawhiba’s identification of students who meet the standards and conditions for admission to the university’s dual-study program. And it also stated that the university would host Mawhiba’s enrichment, academic, and research programs, organized by the foundation in accordance with best international practices. Mawhiba will provide training sessions on how to design, manage, and assess these enrichment programs. In addition, the memorandum required the university’s support in the development of the partnership program with schools. The program, implemented by Mawhiba, offers training sessions for teachers and supervisors in several fields, including the use of technology, discussion methods, evaluation skills and techniques, technical counselling, management development, and leadership skills. The two parties will be involved in several other programs for students, targeting research development skills, leadership skills, and specialized programs for the candidates of the olympiad’s advanced stages. The partnership is designed to help them undertake leading and influential social roles, and cooperate in competitions, exhibitions, and events that Mawhiba organizes or participates in. The cooperation agreement will also include the exchange of expertise and knowledge between Mawhiba and King Abdulaziz University’s members in the academic, research, and professional fields, with the objective of having a generation of youth creative in the areas of science and technology.