 Meisterstuck Wallet 12cc and platinum-coated Classique ballpoint pen with initials engraved
$900, Mount Blanc stores.
A thoughtful and chic gift that always works for him as it is the most essential accessory. Tag Heuer Connected Calibre E4-42mm Smartwatch
$2,000, Tag Heuer.
A luxury smartwatch that blends with fitness-tracking tech and provides a comfortable wearing experience along with the style.  Meta’s 3 quest headset
$1,000, Amazon
Whether your significant other is a tech geek or a guy who doesn’t consider himself the most gadget-savvy dude, this is the best VR headset that will get him hooked to virtual reality. Azza Fahmy messages of Nur love band for him $335, Azza Fahmy official website.
As far as jewelry goes for men, this is classy and the most beautiful gift inscribed with a love verse from the legendary Lebanese poet Khalil Gibran. Sony PlayStation 5 Console
Blu-ray Edition. $747, Jarir bookstore.
For a PlayStation lover, PS5 unleashes a colorful journey into the gaming world with incredible realism.   Azza Fahmy messages of Nur love band ring for her.
$680, Azza Fahmy official website.
A combination of 18 karat gold and sterling silver ring that is beautifully designed to wear on any occasion.  Marquise Diamond Stud Earring
$560, Damas stores
It is not only an excellent piece of investment jewelry but is always in fashion and can be worn with any outfit.  Aquazzura Twist
105 sandals $1,234, Farfetch.com
A desirable pair of pink sandals with high sculpted heels will make the perfect addition to her wardrobe.  Jo Malone scented candle
$293.17, Sephora.
This luxurious floral fragrance deluxe candle will fill the room with the scent of love and make a real impression as a gift.  Hourglass mini top handle bag
$1,197, Balenciaga store.
The striking iconic silhouette bag is the best gift to make her feel super modern and chic.  La Panthere Eau De Parfum
$157.25, Cartier stores.
This luxury fragrance wonderfully captures the flower essence and is incredible enough to be a Valentine’s Day gift for her. 