The fourth edition of the Aramco Saudi Ladies International presented by Public Investment Fund (PIF) will take place at Royal Greens Golf & Country Club from 16 to 19 February. For the latest updates, follow us on Twitter @ArabNewsSport In partnership with the Ladies European Tour (LET), the tournament will feature some of the biggest names in women’s golf such as world no. 1 Lydia Ko, Thai teen sensation and world no. 4 Atthaya Thitikul, and major winner and world no. 7 Lexi Thompson. The tournament made waves in the world of golf through its significant prize purse increase to $5 million — the largest outside of the majors. In a strong statement of equality, the purse matches that of the men’s event, the PIF Saudi International powered by SoftBank Investment Advisers, which took place last week. Besides the on-course action, spectators can expect a wide array of F&B options and entertainment offerings. Whether you’re a golf fan or are simply looking for a fun weekend out, there’s definitely something for everyone at the Aramco Saudi Ladies International presented by PIF. Fun activities all around — With e-gaming, hitting cages, inflatable dart board stations and plenty more, fans will be able to enjoy a fun day out at the various entertainment areas such as the Fan Village and Spectator Zone throughout Royal Greens & Country Club. Pick up the sport of golf — Inspired by the golfing action on the course? Spectators can try their hand at the Starting New at Golf (SNAG) stations at the Fan Village, where they can pick up skills such as putting and chipping. Sports fans will also not want to miss catching top female footballers from local clubs Al-Ittihad and Al-Ahli, who will be down on Friday to participate in a golf clinic. Free Treats — For families, be sure to bring the kids down to catch all the fun and action at the event, especially on Friday. The first 500 children down on Friday will enjoy a free ice cream from the onsite ice-cream truck. For those who head down to the Spectator Zone, you’ll be able to enjoy a free cup of coffee from Brew92 as you enjoy the action on the big screens and try your hand at some outdoor games. Enjoy breathtaking views on the 16th — The pristine course at the Royal Greens & Country Club has often been described by the players as one of the most stunning courses they’ve played at. For spectators, head on over to the iconic 16th hole, which is perfect for those who want to enjoy scenic views of the surrounding Red Sea and sandy beaches.