RIYADH: It’s a measure of the rapid development of sport in Saudi Arabia that lacrosse is starting to gain popularity among some in the capital Riyadh.For the latest updates, follow us on Twitter @ArabNewsSport
The sport may be the oldest organized sport in North America, with a version played as early as the 12th century by the natives of the land before being adopted later by European settlers, but in this part of the world it was practically unheard of until recently.
Now the seeds of growth of what some consider a niche sport have been sown in the Kingdom.
The Saudi Lacrosse Federation launched their first club in Riyadh at the end of 2022, with Executive Director Mohammad Abdullah Al-Jabri explaining a strategy that began almost three years ago.
“Our purpose from this club is to raise awareness of this sport and its growth and fulfil the skills of the athletes,” he said at the game’s new home of Saudi Lacrosse Club in Riyadh. “Actually, we started this plan on Jan. 1, 2020; it was a school program that was divided into four stages.”
“The first stage was about raising awareness, the second stage was about the applied skills of Lacrosse, the third was about the fulfillment of the skills of the athletes by providing them with coaches and courses,” said Al-Jabri. “Now we are at the final stage, which is school programs where we bring all of the best athletes, boys and girls, to the club to give them more training of lacrosse to fulfil their potential.”
It might be early days, but several youngsters have already caught the bug.
“I was in my neighborhood’s club, and then I met coaches Rawan and Hind they informed me that it was an American sport and it’s the first time (it’s being played) here in Saudi,” said Nagham Airame.
“I loved the sport because it was something new, and it’s a good sport.”
For her and other aspiring lacrosse players, the focus now is on maintaining a consistent level of training in what until recently was a foreign activity.
“My goal is to reach the highest level, it needs someone who’s focused and willing to practice a lot,” Airame said. “It was hard in the beginning but what helped me is practicing more and more, and it becomes easier over time.”
Leading the way for the youngsters is Jessie Cox, head of coaching and development at the federation.
“Even though it’s a brand new game in Saudi Arabia, lacrosse has been played for thousands of years,” he said. “It originally started from the Native Americans in the upper northeast of the US and Canada.”
Cox is happy to be part of a project that is promoting the game in the Kingdom.
“I think it’s really cool because most of the people here are seeing lacrosse for the first time,” the American coach said. “It’s something they’ve never seen before. The first question we get is, what is that? — so it’s a lot of fun for us to go out and spread this sport around Saudi Arabia and introduce it to new people.”
“So far I’ve seen great players,” Cox added. “I was at the Saudi Games and there are great athletes down there; hopefully we could get some of those guys and girls playing here too.”
Establishing lacrosse in the Kingdom has also give some expatriates the opportunity to play a sport they enjoyed at a young age.
“I started playing when I was in school at the age of 11, and then after university I moved to a new town and joined a club to find new friends,” said Emma, a lacrosse player. “In the UK, the clubs are for both men and women, who play in separate games, so it’s a great social sport.”
“I think it’s amazing showing that kind of diversity in sports and activities that Saudis now are racing, so it’s fun to see Americans and UK experts being able to bring this sports to Saudi; it’s incredible.” For the latest updates, follow us on Twitter @ArabNewsSport