DUBAI: American luxury retailer the Neiman Marcus Group will honor Jordanian Romanian footwear and accessories designer Amina Muaddi at an awards ceremony on March 5 at Paris Fashion Week. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The designer-to-the-stars will receive the Neiman Marcus Award for Innovation in the Field of Fashion. The group is also awarding the creative director of LOEWE, Jonathan Anderson, for Creative Impact in the Field of Fashion.  A post shared by AMINA MUADDI (@aminamuaddi) “Amina has not only mastered a distinctive aesthetic and cosmopolitan sensibility crafted for the modern-day woman, she is also an accomplished business leader that has proven strength in balancing impressive sales with the importance of innovation, authenticity and brand longevity,” chief merchandising officer Lana Todorovich said in the release. Last year, Brunello Cucinelli won the longstanding Neiman Marcus Award for Distinguished Service in the Field of Fashion, after the award’s seven-year hiatus. The group will invest in merchandising and brand marketing to promote the two brands — alongside Brunello Cucinelli — to its US consumer base, with the view of increasing their reach to US luxury consumers. Both Muaddi and Anderson will collaborate with Neiman Marcus on in-store experiences throughout 2023.  A post shared by AMINA MUADDI (@aminamuaddi) “(Neiman Marcus’s) commitment to begin our partnership very early in the brand’s life helped us expand in the US and connect with their significant clientele,” Muaddi said. Previous recipients include renowned luxury labels Chanel, Christian Dior, Miuccia Prada, Ralph Lauren and Carolina Herrera, which was the last recipient pre-hiatus in 2016. Muaddi launched her eponymous footwear line in August 2018, approximately one year after departing from her role as co-founder and creative director of luxury footwear label Oscar Tiye.  A post shared by AMINA MUADDI (@aminamuaddi) The shoemaker’s eponymous label’s distinct pumps, sling-backs, mules, boots and sandals in an array of vibrant colors and holographic designs have since garnered a loyal checklist of famous fans, including Dua Lipa, Gigi Hadid, Kylie Jenner and Hailey Bieber Baldwin. She helped design the shoes for Rihanna’s Fenty collection. The collaboration was so successful that it received the Collaborator of the Year award at the 34th edition of the FN Achievement Awards. In 2020, she debuted a range of jewelry and handbags. In October 2021, she landed a spot on Women’s Wear Daily (WWD) and Footwear News’s 50 Most Powerful Women list. In Novemeber 2022, she was named the designer of the year at the FN Achievement Awards in New York.