RIYADH: Last week Cristiano Ronaldo scored all four as Al-Nassr thrashed Al-Wedha, and on Friday he turned provider, setting up both goals to give his new team a hard-fought 2-1 win over Al-Taawoun and their place back on top of the Roshn Saudi League. For the latest updates, follow us on Twitter @ArabNewsSport The result means that three teams are now level on four points at the summit in what is turning into one of the closest and most exciting title races anywhere, though there is still a long way to go. In an entertaining clash that could have gone either way, Al-Nassr will be relieved to defeat the only team they have lost to this season and it was a crucial victory. Earlier in the week, Al-Shabab defeated Abha 2-0 and Al-Ittihad won 3-0 at Ettifaq to move back above Al-Nassr. It meant that the pressure was on the Yellows against Al-Taawoun, who have been having a fine season under Pericles Chamusca. Had the Buraidah outfit won, they would have gone fourth above Al-Hilal, who have been busy at the FIFA Club World Cup and are now preparing for the resumption of the Asian Champions League on Monday. Ronaldo has domestic matters on his mind at the moment, and the former Real Madrid and Manchester United man has been full of smiles in Saudi Arabia, especially since scoring five goals in the previous two games for the club he joined in December. He looked to be in the mood from the off, and early in the game the 38-year-old was twisting and turning just outside the area before unleashing a fierce shot that went just high and wide. After a tight opening, Al-Nassr took the lead after 18 minutes. Ronaldo collected the ball just inside the halfway line and released a delightful first-time pass that dissected the Al-Taawoun defense to leave Abdulrahman Ghareeb free. He still had much work to do and, just inside the area, coolly lifted the ball over the advancing goalkeeper. In the final seconds of the first half, Ronaldo turned beautifully at the halfway line to release Ghareeb down the left side, but his dangerous low cross was well stopped by Mailson. Al-Taawoun stepped up a notch after the break and caught All-Nassr’s defense napping at the start of the second half. A right-sided cross from Mohammed Al-Ghamdi found Alvaro Medran stealing in at the far post unmarked to side-foot the ball high into the Nassr net to give goalkeeper Nawaf Al-Aqidi no chance. The game started to open up. Both teams continued to push forward and had half chances, with the ball not quite falling to their dangermen inside the area. Just after the hour, Al-Nassr appealed for a penalty after a Hasan Kadesh handball, but the referee and then VAR did not agree. Then came two VAR interventions that changed the officials’ decisions and also the game. After 67 minutes, however, Al-Taawoun thought they had taken the lead. Leandre Tawamba picked up the ball just outside the area and then slipped the ball smartly past Al-Aqidi. The Cameroon striker was judged to have been slightly offside when the initial pass was played. Then Ronaldo, standing on the edge of the six-yard box, laid off the ball for center-back Abdullah Madu to score. The flag immediately went up for offside against the five-time Ballon D’or winner, who was convinced that VAR would offer redemption. After a lengthy delay, the referee reviewed and agreed with the Portuguese attacker as Al-Nassr retained the lead with eight minutes remaining. There was still time for more entertainment and drama, and in the final minute Al-Taawoun came close. Sumayhan Al-Nabit broke free down the right and, as he entered the area, had just the goalkeeper to beat. His choice to lob Al-Aqidi looked to be the right one, but the ball rolled just millimeters wide of the left-hand post. It was to be their last chance and they will be disappointed to go home with nothing. Al-Nassr will not care. With Al-Shabab and Al-Hilal, now eight points off the top but with games in hand, busy with Asian Champions League action in the next few days, it is a chance for Al-Nassr to get some points on the board. With Ronaldo in such form, few would bet against it.