RIYADH: Princess Lamia bint Majed has been reappointed as the UN Human Settlements Program’s (UN-Habitat) Goodwill Ambassador for the Arab world. Surrounded by the Saudi and UN flags, she signed to extend her tenure at the UN headquarters in Riyadh on Monday and reiterated her commitment to the UN-Habitat mission and to continuing the collaborative work. She told Arab News: “I'm very pleased and honored to be renominated as the Goodwill Ambassador for the Arab region for the UN-Habitat.   “I’m very excited because habitat or housing, it’s one of the most important — and I would say crucial — things for a human to feel safe, to just have a roof over your head. “We worked in the last couple of years with UN-Habitat in different countries. So, we worked in Syria, we worked in Sudan, Iraq, Palestine; we did thousands of units, we helped thousands of families, and this is what makes me sleep well at night. “And what’s happening in the world now in Syria and Turkiye, we will be able to support more,” she said. The princess pointed out that the world had changed, and needs had shifted since she took on the role, especially before and after the coronavirus pandemic. “The need now is how to reach, how you tackle the problem, how to create awareness. “In some areas, it’s very easy. It’s much easier than before because everyone is already used to the digital world. And sometimes it’s very hard because it’s not that easy to reach that person physically, as seen with what’s happening now in Syria and Turkiye. “So, it’s always a challenge, but to be able to serve and to help is an honor and a pleasure. And I think it’s a learning curve for everyone. “I hope inshallah, with this appointment, I’ll be able to help from a philanthropic perspective and with the United Nations, as well,” she added. Princess Lamia noted the support of the Saudi government in helping with UN-Habitat’s achievements and said her goal for the upcoming term was to maintain the momentum. She also encouraged Saudi youth to volunteer and get involved with supporting the UN-Habitat mission. Maimunah Mohd Sharif, executive director of UN-Habitat, told Arab News: “Today is a historic moment for us in UN-Habitat for signing the extension of her royal highness, Princess Lamia, as our Goodwill Ambassador. And we’re very happy that she agreed to continue the work and champion the mandate of UN-Habitat. “She’s been with us for the first three years and she’s an advocate for our work, not only in this region, but also the other parts of the region.”  