RIYADH: Relief planes carrying urgent food and aid from Saudi Arabia have arrived at Adana Airport to support earthquake victims in Syria and Turkiye. The King Salman Center for Relief and Humanitarian Aid told Arab News on Thursday: “The first Saudi relief plane arrived at Adana Airport in Turkiye this morning as part of the Saudi air bridge.   “Later, a second Saudi relief plane arrived at Adana Airport, carrying 98 tons of relief materials, including food baskets, tents, shelter bags, blankets and rugs, in addition to medical materials. “This aid is within the framework of the humanitarian and relief efforts provided by Saudi Arabia through its humanitarian arm, the KSrelief, to support the affected groups in various parts of the world in the various crises and tribulations that they are going through.”   KSrelief on Wednesday launched a national campaign to support those affected by the earthquakes which hit Syria and Turkiye on Monday, in implementation of the directives of King Salman and Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. Abdullah Al-Rabeeah, adviser to the Royal Court and supervisor general of KSrelief, said on Wednesday: “Under the directives of the king and the crown prince, we are launching the National Campaign for the Earthquake Victims in Syria and Turkiye. These generous directives embody the noble humanitarian efforts of the Kingdom’s leadership and people.   “KSrelief, in partnership with relevant Saudi authorities, is supporting everyone who was injured and otherwise affected by this event. “This national campaign will collect donations through the Sahem donation website portal. The public can also donate by direct transfer to KSrelief’s dedicated bank accounts.   “Donations received even before this launch have reached more than SR13 million, which certainly reflects the generosity and humanity of the Saudi people.” He added: “We are ensuring that through this campaign many projects in various sectors will be implemented, including a relief airlift to be launched within the next few hours.   “Shelter, medical and food aid will be sent through the airlift, along with rescue teams traveling to earthquake-affected areas to save the lives of the injured.” Al-Rabeeah said rapid intervention teams, emergency medical groups, and volunteer Saudi cadres were being transported to the area to help relieve the suffering of the people affected in Syria and Turkiye.