DUBAI: “Moon Knight” star May Calamawy, who is of Egyptian and Palestinian descent, has been announced as a celebrity guest for this year’s Middle East Film and Comic Con, taking place from March 3-5 in Abu Dhabi. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle “Stranger Things” actor Jamie Campbell Bower is also scheduled to attend the show, which has previously announced a celebrity line-up including American voice actors Christopher Sabat and Zach Aguilar, US actress Paige O’Hara, British actors Andy Serkis, Matt Smith, and Anthony Daniels, and Disney’s award-winning designer Mike Peraza. A post shared by Middle East Film & Comic Con (@mefcc) Calamawy, who was born to an Egyptian father and Jordanian mother, is blazing a trail as one of Hollywood’s rising stars. Her breakthrough role came in 2019 as a series regular on Hulu’s Peabody-winning and Emmy-nominated comedy series, “Ramy.” The actress, who was born in Bahrain, also played the role of Layla El-Faouly in Marvel’s miniseries “Moon Knight.” Her character is the wife of Oscar Isaac’s Marc Spector — an archaeologist who by season’s end had transformed into the superhero Scarlet Scarab. Calamawy previously told Arab News that acting alongside Isaac and Ethan Hawke was “intimidating, like, really intimidating at first.” A post shared by Middle East Film & Comic Con (@mefcc) She explained: “Once I got to know them, I would be, like, ‘Guys I’m intimidated,’ and that helped. After a while you don’t care anymore and its fun because I got to have a masterclass with the best.” Helmed by Egyptian filmmaker Mohamed Diab, “Moon Knight” was the first Marvel project to have an Arab director. Meanwhile, Bower, who played the main antagonist Vecna in the “most-watched TV series of 2022,” will make an appearance on March 4 and 5. The UK-born actor, entertainer, songwriter, and artist has appeared in a number of huge franchises, including “Harry Potter,” “Twilight,” “Mortal Instruments,” “Fantastic Beasts,” and, as of 2022, Netflix’s most popular original series “Stranger Things.”