Saud Al-Saud became president of the newly established Saudi Dodgeball Federation in 2022. In his role, he is establishing a framework for future expansion and development of the federation’s strategic plan. Al-Saud is also supervising the introduction of a new sports ecosystem to the country, while seeking out new participants, raising awareness, and securing sponsorships and partnerships. He previously served as an executive director at the Riyadh International Catering Corporation, which holds the McDonald’s franchise in various regions of the Kingdom. With the leadership, he oversaw the setting up of the organization’s three-year strategy, and supported the expansion of the company by leading the HR and admin departments. Al-Saud also participated in social responsibility activities and events, made contributions in the areas of marketing and corporate communication, in addition to managing a staff of more than 6,500 individuals and ensured the smooth operation of more than 200 branches. From 2018 to 2020, he served as the Ministry of Investment’s director of the sports segment for investment attraction and promotion. Al-Saud created, implemented and oversaw the sector’s strategic, tactical, and operational plans and initiatives. He made contributions to the promotion and attraction of foreign and local investments in order to assure the sector’s successful growth and expansion. From 2013 to 2015, he oversaw the licensing and quality department as the head of licensing for investor services at the ministry, which was previously known as the Saudi Arabian General Investment Authority. He served as a core competency of the licensing committee, and used his leadership skills to manage his team of senior evaluators. During his time the department became digitized. Before taking the helm in 2013, he led the central region’s center for investor services, which served as a one-stop shop for foreign investors. Al-Saud managed seamless operations in his capacity by keeping an eye on the daily activities, managed teams to control the quality and level of service, and cultivated connections with both domestic and international investors. He was previously a specialist in investor relations and served as the primary point of contact with investors, enhancing their experience, and securing notable sponsors for the Global Competitiveness Forum. Al-Saud graduated from the college of industry management at the King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals with a bachelor’s degree in marketing. He also holds a master’s in strategy and organization consultancy from EDHEC Business School in Lille, France. He has also obtained accreditations from Harvard Kennedy School, the Stanford Center for Professional Development, Kellogg School of Management in Illinois, and Royal Military Academy Sandhurst in England. 