RIYADH: Mawhiba, or The King Abdulaziz and His Companions Foundation for Giftedness and Creativity, will announce the results of the Gifted Arabs initiative during a ceremony on Wednesday. In its second session (2022- 2023), the initiative is implemented by the National Center for Performance Management, to discover, nurture and empower young Arab talents. The ceremony will be held in Burj Rafal in Riyadh in cooperation with Arab League Educational, Cultural and Scientific Organization “ALECSO”. It will celebrate winners from 1131 male and female students from 16 Arab countries that participated in the initiative, namely; Jordan, Emirates, Bahrain, Tunisia, Algeria, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Iraq, Oman, Palestine, Qatar, Kuwait, Libya, Morocco, Mauritania and Yemen. The initiative aims to reveal the latent abilities and skills of the gifted and creative, through a number of dimensions that include mental flexibility, mathematical reasoning, spatial, scientific and mechanical inference, linguistics and reading comprehension. It was developed in a way that suits the diverse Arab environment and culture, relying on a scientific methodology, based on the best international educational practices. Mawhiba will also hold the Spring Training Forum from March 3 to 14, to qualify 217 talented men and women for international participation. In partnership with the Ministry of Education the forum will see the participation of 148 male and 69 female students, from 19 educational administrations from the general education stages. Over the span of ten days, students will attend an average of eight hours of training per day, and a total of about 80 training hours during the days of the Forum. The forum is based on training the participants, through 20 male and female trainers of the best national and international competencies, and they are supervised by 10 male and female supervisors of national cadres and expertise. Students were nominated in a number of scientific fields, of which the share of mathematics was 32, informatics 68, chemistry 30, physics 23, biology 26, and science 38.