RIYADH: Japan’s ambassador to Saudi Arabia on Tuesday hosted a reception in Riyadh to celebrate Emperor Naruhito’s 63rd birthday. The event was held at envoy Fumio Iwai’s residence in the Saudi capital in the presence of Riyadh Deputy Gov. Prince Mohammed bin Abdulrahman bin Abdulaziz, diplomats, dignitaries, and guests from the public and private sectors. In a speech at the reception, Iwai noted that the occasion was taking place on the eve of the Saudi Founding Day, highlighting the long-lasting friendship and bilateral relations between the two countries. He said: “We witness rapid changes in the Kingdom every day, but I believe there are aspects that never change, and the special bond between the two royal families of the Kingdom and Japan is one example.” He pointed out that both nations were committed to their joint visions for 2030 that had been further enhanced through a series of ministerial exchanges last year which included two official visits by Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Faisal bin Farhan to Japan in July and September. The ambassador also noted the participation of Minister of Investment Khalid Al-Falih in the sixth Saudi-Japan Vision 2030 ministerial meeting in Tokyo in November, and the visit of Japanese Minister of Economy, Trade, and Industry Yasutoshi Nishimura to Riyadh in December. “These visits became a great opportunity to enhance the relationship between the governments as well as new business developments concluding 15 new memorandums of understanding,” Iwai added. He said numerous Japanese companies had opened offices in Riyadh during 2022 including Astellas Pharma, IT security firm Trend Micro Inc., and healthcare business Sysmex, while air-conditioning manufacturer Daikin Industries, Ltd., had set up a factory in Rawdat Al-Sudair. The envoy told attendees that he had visited all 13 provinces of Saudi Arabia and was impressed by the widespread support and ongoing implementation of the Vision 2030 reform plan. And he said 2025 would mark the 70th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the two countries. “We look forward to working even closer with Saudi Arabia, so that the two countries can celebrate this important occasion with tangible and future-oriented achievements,” Iwai added.