RIYADH: Saudis are gearing up to celebrate their love on Valentine’s Day at some of the Kingdom’s most romantic destinations and restaurants. From the many highly in-demand locations in the country, Arab News has selected a few of the most unique fine dining experiences for smitten couples. Harrat Viewpoint AlUla is fortunate to have many vantage points from which to see the magnificent surroundings. Climbing up Harrat Uwayrid’s black lava stone terrain, you’ll be rewarded with vistas of Dadan, AlUla Old Town, AlUla Fort, and AlUla Oasis.   Ponder, stand at what seems to be the edge of the Earth, and get back in touch with nature. It’s recommended to arrive before sunset to take in the sights, sounds, and magic of the golden hour. During this time, the sky glows orange and transforms everything you see. Stay until dusk to observe the sky gradually fill with thousands of sparkling stars and with the aid of a telescope, you may see various constellations. Okto is one of the most unique restaurants in the area and has created a special menu for couples wanting to take in the views while enjoying a meal. “We’ll be serving a special red cocktail and heart-shaped dessert for Valentine’s Day, and the setting is ideal for a date because it’s cozy and gets more gorgeous as the night goes on,” said Deema Al-Sehli, owner of Okto. Ramla Terraza Ramla Terraza is a new complex in Riyadh with many dining options including Brute, Clap, Iris Cafe and Jones the Grocer. If you like Latin American food, Brute could be for you. The venue is focused on Argentinian meat cuts.   Another would be the acclaimed Japanese restaurant Clap, previously operated as a pop-up location in Majdoul Tower during Riyadh Season. Recently, Clap Dubai earned one toque at the Gault & Millau 2022 Awards. There is also the Australian gourmet food purveyor and eatery Jones the Grocer, a laid-back restaurant with several locations throughout the GCC and is currently a favorite among many Saudis. Last but not least is Iris Cafe, an eatery and lounge that promises a “distinctive menu” of food and mocktails. Bujairi Terrace Bujairi Terrace, the brand-new dining establishment, is located in Diriyah, the historical apex of Saudi heritage, where the history of the Kingdom is preserved among its lanes, alleyways and mud structures. The area of At-Turaif, a UNESCO World Heritage site, is located around 15 minutes from the center of Riyadh with several restaurants to try out, each oozing with culture.   There are many locations to choose from in Bujairi Terrace, with Somewhere a top destination for dining. The restaurant serves Mediterranean cuisine with a modern twist. It became a local favorite when it opened its doors in 2018, and has recently also opened in AlUla. Additionally, Tatel, a Spanish restaurant owned by the famous football player Cristiano Ronaldo and his business partners, also recently opened at Bujairi Terrace. It serves up a selection of Spanish haute cuisine with inventive mocktails, musicians, and daily live entertainment — creating a singular sensory experience. Jeddah Resorts Nothing is more romantic than a trip with a spa and a beach view, such as those found in Jeddah’s resorts. There are many to choose from, such as the Narcissus Hotel and Spa, which boasts a view of Jeddah’s north coast. The resort has 60 villas of various sizes — junior, premium, executive and royal. Another location that many favor for a quick getaway is Durrat Al-Arus, where the villas are secluded and have their own private beach and pool. Durrat Al-Arus is a bustling resort that offers villas and apartments for daily rental. It is also a local favorite. It’s a fantastic option for families because of the variety of activities. 