LONDON: Emerging filmmaker Ahmed Al-Hamoud and artificial intelligence scientist Ahmed Kaky of John Moores University announced on Monday a joint venture to create cutting-edge technology that would revolutionize the cinematic frame. The project will be executed under the umbrella of Al-Hamoud’s company, Tenet Ai Production, according to a press statement announcing the novel venture. While the applications of AI in the filmmaking industry are still in their early stages, they have a vast potential to change the industry, Kaky explained, highlighting that incorporating AI in filmmaking can change the game in many ways. Abdo Sukari, a scientist specializing in innovation and development based in Switzerland, embarked on the venture to add a unique contribution that combines the filmmaker’s creative ideas with the scientist’s technical insight. He revealed that the team intends to revolutionize screenwriting and filmmaking concepts using several patents. “I’m (confident) we can develop something that will revolutionize how we think about the cinematic experience,” Sukari said. “The combination of multidisciplinary expertise film techniques, AI and innovation development will birth a unique and first-of-a-kind concept.” After years of consulting with different outside advisors, Al-Hamoud, known professionally as Hima, sought to build on research in neuroscience, experimental psychology and linguistic theories from prestigious universities and institutes such as MIT and Stanford, laying the groundwork for constructing artificial neural networks in a two-year time frame. He pointed out that using AI in filmmaking will allow the audience to have conscious experiences that speak to their subconscious. “I design algorithms for locating hidden configurations in cinematic data sets, sourcing from social media, text mining and dialogue analytics to visual storytelling, and using a combination of machine learning models and deep learning,” Al-Hamoud said. “The ultimate goals of this technology are to build cutting-edge technology that will create a distinct cinematic experience known as the Hima Cinematic Universe, unlike anything we’ve experienced before,” he added. “My second goal is to help Hollywood professionals, directors, cinematographers and editors push cinema boundaries as we prepare to open a new lab in Los Angeles over the coming two years. We are working on several patents investing in AI in the film industry. “For me, each movie scene has its algorithm that stands solidly for the entire film. This technology will create a persistent rhythm for the unique dimensions of my scripts,” Al-Hamoud added.