Abdulrahman Alsheail, director general of human resources at the Institute of Public Administration, has recently been selected by the Society for Human Resource Management in the US to become a member of its Certification Commission, the first Saudi appointee. Alsheail is an award-winning HR transformation thought leader, renowned for helping organizations bolster employee engagement, expand leader capabilities, and maximize organizational effectiveness in the Saudi work environment. He began his career at the Institute of Public Administration in 2010 as a recruitment officer at the institute’s English-language center. As the IPA’s HR director general, he oversees the institute’s HR strategies, supporting five campuses. He is also a faculty member who delivers professional training programs and conducts studies and consulting projects in HR. Alsheail’s accomplishments include establishing the human resources development department at the institute. His transformation projects have led to significant savings for the institute and increased employee engagement, retention, and organizational and operational excellence. His background in the English language and translation has enabled him to work with global HR associations to translate several HR books into Arabic, including the World-at-Work certified “Global Remuneration Professional.” His significant contributions to the HR field have secured him multiple awards, including GOV HR Leader of the Year (2021), Best L&D Program by CIPD (2020), HR Icon Award by The Economic Times (2023). He has served as a keynote speaker and a panelist in major international and national human resources conferences. CIO has named Alsheail as one of the most influential HR leaders to follow in 2022. Alsheail holds a master’s degree in teaching international languages from California State University, Chico, and a bachelor’s degree in English language and translation from Qassim University, Saudi Arabia. He is also a certified ROI professional and has several other industry certifications. 