Rain did its best but didn’t manage to stop play at Meydan last week, although it was undoubtedly a soggy affair. For the latest updates, follow us on Twitter @ArabNewsSport This played to the strengths of the visiting Europeans, however, who managed two wins. First came the Irish-trained Coachello in the Dubai Sprint, while Good Fortune now owns a slice of history, having become the first Denmark-trained horse to win at the Carnival. A big well done to his trainer, Soren Jensen, who managed the win with just his second-ever runner in the UAE. On to this week, when there are horses from eight countries clashing across seven races. It’s a very strong card, featuring the G2 Maktoum Challenge Round 2, which should throw up some horses to take their chance in the $12-million Dubai World Cup in March. The connections of Algiers have that race firmly on their agenda after the gelding’s impressive win in Round 1. He runs here due to not having received an invitation to The Saudi Cup, as yet, and Riyadh’s loss will be Dubai’s gain as he will be hard to beat, although Remorse and Salute The Soldier will be among those trying their best to do just that. The Group 2 Singspiel Stakes looks a fascinating race, with four Godolphin horses locking horns, including Valiant Prince who beat several of these rivals in the Al-Rashidiya last time out. For the last two years this race has been won by Lord Glitters and his trainer, David O’Meara, has Shelir here. A fast-finishing second in the Zabeel Mile last time out, the extra 200 meters this time should suit the 7-year-old, so he gets my vote. Another one to watch is Sifting Sands, one of three runners on the night for US trainer Doug O’Neill. Connections have been purring about him and he runs here with a view to switching to dirt later in the Carnival. Twelve fillies clash in the Group 2 Cape Verdi, among them four for Godolphin who have Group race winners With The Moonlight and Wild Beauty on their side, while Soft Whisper beat several of these in the Ipi Tombe Stakes last time. I can’t choose between them, so maybe it goes to Spain who have Samedi Rien, a closing third to Soft Whisper, in the lineup for trainer Guillermo Arizkoretta. It’ll be tough for her, but these races are meant to be. The Group 3 Al-Shindagha Sprint will give us a contender for the G1 Dubai Golden Shaheen on World Cup night. There isn’t much between the 12 who line up, but Doug Watson has issued a positive bulletin about Mubakker, so he’s my pick. Bhupat Seemar’s Freedom Fighter is another interesting one if able to overcome his wide draw in 13. Watson could have a good evening as he also runs Legend Of Dubai in the closing handicap. The 5-year-old is a two-time winner in the UK and runs here for the first time, but is well-regarded by his handler and could be hard to beat. Ouzo, trained in the UK by Jamie Osborne, is another who should run well, having finished a close third over course and distance three weeks ago. It’s nice that Vazirabad, a three-time winner of the G2 Dubai Gold Cup, is being recognized with a race named after him and the 2,410-meter handicap, race two, is a competitive affair. There’s no standout pick, for me, but Final Dance is an eight-time winner on turf in Turkey and should love this extra distance. He’s better than he showed when only eighth behind Algiers last time, so perhaps he can cause an upset in this lower grade. The evening starts with the Purebred Arabians’ version of Maktoum Challenge Round 2, a Group 1. Watch out for Hiab Al-Zaman, a Grade 1 winner in America, who makes his local debut here for trainer Fawzi Nass.