RIYADH: The undercard for “Jake Paul v Tommy Fury: The Truth” has been revealed, with local and international boxers set for an action-packed evening at Diriyah’s purpose-built arena on Sunday, Feb. 26. For the latest updates, follow us on Twitter @ArabNewsSport Besides the main event, where one of boxing’s biggest rivalries will reach its conclusion, “The Truth” will also feature eight bouts. Ravi Samani, COO and acting head of marketing, public relations and communications at Skill Challenge Entertainment, said: “We cannot wait for this undercard and everyone with tickets is in for a real treat. From a world title fight to hometown heroes and pro debutants, fireworks await on Feb. 26. “Each fighter is looking to make a statement on the world stage. They are prepared to do whatever’s necessary to win and that makes for box-office viewing at the Diriyah arena. This undercard really is first class and will set the scene for what follows in the main event. A magnificent night of boxing is right around the corner, so fans should purchase their tickets today. We’re inches away from selling out.” Immediately before Paul versus Fury, Ilunga Makabu puts his WBC cruiserweight world championship on the line against former two-weight world champion Badou Jack in the evening’s co-main event. Rising Saudi boxing star Ziyad Almaayouf looks to continue his professional ascension against Ronald Martinez. Almaayouf made his professional debut on the “Rage on the Red Sea” undercard last August and is looking to emulate his first-round stoppage victory last time out. In another intriguing matchup, undefeated American cruiserweight prospect Muhsin Cason (10-0, KO 7) goes head-to-head with Azerbaijan’s Taryel Jafarov, while Badr Al-Samreen, the first Jordanian professional boxer (7-0, KO 6), faces Viorel Simion of Romania. Meanwhile, history will be made in the evening’s preliminary bouts when Ragad Al-Naimi becomes the first female Saudi boxer to make her professional debut against Perpetual Okaidah. Female participation in boxing has never been higher across the Kingdom and Al-Naimi is hoping to deliver an impressive performance to inspire other up-and-coming local talent seeking to emerge on the global stage. Popular American YouTuber Adam Saleh is also in action against fellow countryman Stuart Kellogg, while Saudi Arabia’s Zaid Majrashi faces Philip Quansah, and Salman Hamda meets Daniel Plange.