DUBAI: Australian Lebanese model Jessica Kahawaty has added a new brand to her ever growing list of collaborations. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The actress, humanitarian and entrepreneur took to Instagram on Wednesday to announce that she has teamed up with Italian luxury label Gucci. A post shared by Jessica Kahawaty جيسيكا قهواتي (@jessicakahawaty) “It’s here! Your girl is GUCCI Jackie. Honored to have worked on this creative and adventurous filled, multi-personality campaign with @Gucci - because we’re all a little Gucci inside,” the Dubai-based model wrote on Instagram, sharing the news with her 1.2 million followers. In the short clip she posted, Kahawaty sported the brand’s Jackie purse in red, black, yellow and beige as she changed her hair color and style from her natural brunette shade to blonde, then ginger, then black. She seems to be liking the black hair, because she asked her followers to vote on whether she should cut and dye her hair like the wig she wore in the campaign. A post shared by Jessica Kahawaty جيسيكا قهواتي (@jessicakahawaty) Kahawaty has worked with top-notch brands like Tod’s, Prada, Boucheron, Chloe and more. Last month, she starred in German fashion label Hugo Boss’s Spring/Summer 2023 digital campaign, alongside other A-list celebrities including Gigi Hadid, Demi Lovato, Pairs Hilton, Maluma, Bella Throne, Naomi Campbell and more. She also walked for Lebanese designer Georges Hobeika during Paris Haute Couture Week in January. She wore a voluminous satin gown in blue with an embroidered floor-length coat. A post shared by Jessica Kahawaty جيسيكا قهواتي (@jessicakahawaty) Her mother, Rita Kahawaty, also modeled for Hobeika. At the time, Jessica said that walking her first Paris Haute Couture show with Hobeika was “a dream.” “Walking right behind my mother in Paris Haute Couture for Georges Hobeika is a memory I’ll never forget,” she added. When Jessica is not modeling, she can be found setting up charitable endeavors — evidenced most recently in her support for people affected by the earthquake in Turkey and Syria. A post shared by Jessica Kahawaty جيسيكا قهواتي (@jessicakahawaty) Kahawaty has been sharing videos and suggesting charitable organizations to donate to help the victims. For her most recent collaboration with Prada, the model said that she will be donating her earning from the partnership to help families affected by the earthquake.