JEDDAH: The facial structure of a 2,000-year-old Nabataean woman from the AlUla region has been reconstructed by experts from the Royal Commission for AlUla. They used the skeleton of the woman, dubbed “Hinat,” who authorities believed died in the first century B.C. The reconstruction will be displayed for the public in the visitor’s center at the Hegra historical site in AlUla from Feb. 6. The skeleton was discovered inside a tomb in the UNESCO World Heritage site in 2008. Human remains, skin and hair, along with textiles, leather and other substances were also discovered, as was an inscription that said that the tomb belonged to “Hinat, the daughter of Wahbu.” Studies confirmed the importance of Hinat’s position in the Nabataean community, as she had possessed sufficient wealth to obtain her own tomb in Hegra. A number of experts on Nabataean civilization issued a biography of Hinat, equipped with pictures of her clothes and jewelry as a background to her facial reconstruction. They were joined by a production team with experience in anthropology, reconstruction and physical model-making. The reconstruction aims to give visitors the opportunity to learn about the ancient history of the region. Helen McGauran, an expert in organizing heritage exhibitions, said: “The process of restoring Hinat’s facial features combined both scientific accuracy and contemporary artistic development to expand our understanding about the Nabataean civilization, which still offers many secrets and stories, and sheds light on the history of AlUla.” Leila Chapman, an expert in narrative experiences at the RCU, said that observing Hinat will provide visitors with an immersive historical experience through insights into the history of the Nabataeans and their civilization. Laila Neamah, co-director of the Hegra project, oversaw the selection of appropriate models for the reconstruction. The RCU seeks to preserve the heritage of the region, as well as attract visitors and residents. The commission’s “Journey Through Time” plan involves the launch of the “Kingdom’s Institute” in the Dadan area. The design of the structure will be inspired by the Dadan civilization. 