LONDON: For much of its first episode, “Shrinking” is trading on its (admittedly strong) premise alone – that of a bereaved therapist waking up one day and deciding to tell his clients how it is, rather than what might be considered professionally astute. Because, frankly, the opening installment of Apple TV+’s new comedy is a bit of a mess. Therapist Jimmy (series co-creator Jason Segel) has been widowed for a year when he suddenly decides to address his self-destructive spiral, pay more attention to his daughter, and begin blindsiding his patients with a unique brand of tough love. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle   Patiently waiting for Jimmy to straighten himself out are his fellow therapist Gaby (“Love Life” star Jessica Williams) and boss Paul (a wonderful Harrison Ford), who fluctuate between sympathizing with his bereavement and chiding him for his unethical new approach to therapy. Once the clumsy, rather contrived scene-setting of episode one is out of the way, these supporting characters come into their own, and “Shrinking” begins to flex its creative clout. Segel’s co-creators are Bill Lawrence and Brett Goldstein — of “Scrubs” and “Ted Lasso” fame respectively — so there’s no shortage of comedic muscle on display here and, for the most part, “Shrinking” is every bit as charming as its soccer-based predecessor.   Where it begins to falter a little is with its lead. Unlike Ted Lasso, or even JD from “Scrubs,” Jimmy just isn’t particularly nice, despite Segel’s best efforts. It’s hard for the audience to feel much sympathy for a character who has done very little to warrant it. Nonetheless, there’s some very good gags to be had in his scorched-earth approach to therapy, Williams is effortlessly charismatic, and Ford’s turn as the curmudgeonly mentor/friend/boss might already be one of 2023’s best new characters. There’s definitely enough here to give “Shrinking” the benefit of the doubt for now, then. Let’s hope that the show, and Jimmy himself, prove worthy of a little more patience.