LOS ANGELES: Two-time Oscar-winner Christoph Waltz has taken a leap to the small screen in Amazon’s upcoming dark comedy thriller, “The Consultant,” which is set for release on Feb. 24. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The series follows an office which, after the death of its CEO, is invaded by an unsettling business consultant whose sociopathic management style threatens the workers’ careers and lives. “Television seems to be unavoidable because if you don’t do television, you may end up not doing much at all,” Waltz, who plays the role of Regus Patoff, said in an interview with Arab News. “I don’t really have anything against television as a medium. I just have something against bad television.   “You read the pilot. You say, ‘I’d like to meet the people.’ Then I met the people. I like the people. So, you know, thereasons for not doing television were running out,” he added. In addition to starring, Waltz also joined the series as an executive producer. “I make it a point that the writer is the writer because to tell the writer what to write if I’m not the producer is shooting myself in the foot. Because I want to know what he’s coming up with so I can try to execute that,” Waltz explained.   Despite his candor about the rest of the production, Waltz kept mum about the details of his character, leaving fans no choice but to watch to find out more. “I am in the uniquely privileged situation to not have to describe the character because I can play it. I can show you,” he said. “And what is it that I show you? You think it’s important to show you what I think about this character? It is important to show you what you think about that character,” he added, emphasizing the audience’s role in consuming any sort of entertainment media. This week, the cast, which also includes US actors Nat Wolff, Brittany O’Grady, Aimee Carrero and more, attended the premiere of the show in Los Angeles. For the screening, O’Grady wore a black column gown with beaded pearl detailing from Lebanese designer Zuhair Murad’s ready-to-wear resort 2023 collection.