JEDDAH: The 11th Jeddah International Travel and Tourism Exhibition on Sunday opened in the Red Sea port city with more than 200 exhibitors from 26 countries in attendance. One of the leading international fairs of its kind in Saudi Arabia, the annual three-day event is being staged at Jeddah Superdome and includes representatives of airlines, travel agencies, hotel groups, and tourism authorities. The exhibition aims to connect international travel businesses to the Saudi tourism market — considered one of the fastest growing in the world — by bringing together key local travel leaders and international exhibitors to establish new relations and strengthen and develop existing partnerships. This year’s edition will be attended by a wide variety of exhibitors: Tourism associations from throughout the country, airlines, hotels, car rental companies, shipping firms, supplier services, and various tourist attractions. Jeddah Gov. Prince Saud bin Abdullah bin Jalawi inaugurated the exhibition that was also attended by Maya Halfawi, president of the organizing committee and general manager of 4M Events. Halfawi said: “The exhibition is considered a unique platform that brings together a number of investors in the tourism sector.” She added that this year’s event would focus on paving the way for more partnerships and contracts between participants from Saudi Arabia and other nations. She told Arab News: “The show not only serves as an ideal platform showcasing tourism destinations but also offers visitors an opportunity to benefit from various packages and promotions on offer exclusively during the event.” The exhibition included related professional meetings via a new electronic platform for business-to-business meetings, Halfawi said. In addition to local companies such as Saudi Holiday, and Flynas, countries represented at the exhibition include Qatar, South Korea, Morocco, Jordan, Malaysia, Thailand, Turkiye, India, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Georgia, and Mauritius. AlUla was also showcasing its rich cultural heritage. Suzairy Ibrahim, overseas director of Tourism Malaysia, said the company would be highlighting the southeast Asian country’s natural environment, cultural adventures, and reputation as a safe, family-friendly destination catering especially to the Middle Eastern market. Marketing executive of the Tourism Authority of Thailand, Chen Rujikietkumjorn, said: “It is a great opportunity to promote national tourism to the Saudi market. “We have brought with us officials from the visa department to explain how to obtain entry to Thailand. Also with us are hotel and travel agency representatives promoting their services.” Dr. Reshmi Pramod, from Jeevaniyam Ayurveda hospital in India, said a team had traveled to Jeddah to promote medical tourism, particularly in relation to child autism, special therapy, behavioral problems, development delay, rehabilitation, and learning disorders.