RIYADH: With Valentine’s Day just around the corner, many Saudis are wondering where the Kingdom’s newest and most talked-about celebrity couple, Cristiano Ronaldo and Georgina Rodriguez, might celebrate the romantic occasion. After all, the pair, who have been in a relationship since 2016, have never been shy about sharing their strong feelings of love for each other on social media. The football superstar and his family moved to the Kingdom in January after he signed for Saudi side Al-Nassr in late December. Since then, the couple have been spotted enjoying days out with their children at various attractions and experiencing some of the perks offered by Riyadh’s distinctive entertainment and gastronomy scene.   In January, for example, Ronaldo and Rodriguez enjoyed a romantic meal at French fine-dining restaurant Le Maschou, one of Riyadh’s most interesting restaurants, its rock-walled rooms lit by flickering candles. Arab News asked our readers to suggest what should be on the couple’s agenda for the day on which the world celebrates love. Yasmeen Alkhamis, a relationship manager with a private company, created a timetable to keep them entertained for the whole day. “During the daytime, the couple should book the ‘Timeless Love’ package at the Four Seasons Hotel in Riyadh, and then head to a romantic dinner in Coya or MNKY HSE,” she said.   The hotel’s exclusive Valentine’s Day package includes a 60-minute couples massage, a complimentary breakfast, and other perks. Both of the restaurants suggested by Alkhamis serve Latin American cuisine and are renowned for their extravagant fine-dining experiences and high ratings awarded by delighted diners. Newly graduated Thekra Altamimi reckons a trip to AlUla would be a great option for the celebrity couple. “AlUla is the perfect destination for Valentine’s Day,” she said. “Besides the luxurious resorts in the heart of the oasis, the couple could watch the sunset in a hot air balloon and take a tour of the landmarks from different angles.” AlUla, a favorite destination for Saudis and foreigners alike, is one of the Kingdom’s top tourist attractions and has welcomed many thousands of visitors over the years. It offers tours of historic sites such as Hegra, Elephant Rock, and Madain Saleh, along with star gazing excursions and fine dining experiences. The celebration of Valentine’s Day was prohibited in the Kingdom until 2017. Now it is celebrated nationwide, giving Saudi and expatriate couples the freedom to express their love as lavishly or simply as they like. Hearts and flowers decorate stores, coffee shops, hotels and restaurants in honor of the day and many establishments offer special packages or discounts. With countless options for celebrating their love, and plenty of places in the capital for them to explore, we are sure Ronaldo and Rodriguez, like many other couples, will choose their own, special, perfect way to celebrate in style. 