Riyadh: A new era in Saudi women’s boxing is set to begin on Sunday when a female fighter from the Kingdom makes the first professional debut on the undercard to the Jake Paul vs. Tommy Fury showdown. For the latest updates, follow us on Twitter @ArabNewsSport Aside from the long-awaited fight where Paul and Fury will finally settle boxing’s biggest grudge match, Ragad Al-Naimi will face off against Perpetual Okaidah under the brights lights in Diriyah. Ahead of her bout, Al-Naimi said that she is honored to represent her country on home soil and looks forward to competing in such a high-profile event. Her story is sure to captivate, inspire and pave the way for future women fighters around the Kingdom. “Being the first Saudi female to compete in an international boxing event gives me a lot of pride. I never thought that I would one day be able to perform on such a big international stage in my home country,” she added. “Saudi Arabia is a young, vibrant country that supports and cherishes its youth, and I can’t wait to be a part of this by competing on the upcoming card on Feb. 26.” “I’m confident I will win,” the 28-year-old added. “I’m fully invested in my training, I’ve always wanted to perform at the highest level and I’m determined to prove I can compete on international cards.” After being introduced to the sport while studying overseas in the US, Al-Naimi’s passion for boxing compelled her to continue training upon her return to the Kingdom. Although her start came much later than other boxers, Al-Naimi’s professional debut is certain to show emerging talent that anything is possible with the correct application and commitment. “For me, boxing came by natural instinct,” she said. “Usually fighters start training at a very early age, whereas I began in my early 20s. The moment I started boxing, I knew I was good at this sport and my love for it has never waned. “My first boxing classes began in early 2017 and by May 2018, I was able to participate in a charity fight. From there, things kept progressing to today, where the sport is developing in our country like never before,” Al-Naimi added. Recent years have seen boxing play a pivotal part in Saudi Arabia’s ascension to one of the fastest-growing countries in world sport, inspired by major international events that have left a lasting legacy. Perhaps the most significant was “Clash on the Dunes” in 2019, when Anthony Joshua avenged his shock defeat to Andy Ruiz Jr. and become a two-time world heavyweight champion in front of a capacity crowd inside Diriyah Arena. Three years on from the epic encounter, the event is directly impacting boxing popularity to this day. Since then, a 300 percent increase in the number of male and female boxers registering with the Saudi Arabian Boxing Federation has been recorded, with the number of boxing gyms rising nationwide from seven to 59, and 53 registered clubs from other sports now having boxing divisions. Al-Naimi harbors no doubt about what instigated the Kingdom’s newfound love for boxing, and she is especially pleased with the proactivity and productivity of the Ministry of Sport and Saudi Arabian Boxing Federation. “The massive difference in participation was after ‘Clash on the Dunes’,” Al-Naimi said. “For both genders, interest in the sport has skyrocketed since then and record numbers are continuously competing in local competitions hosted in Riyadh and Jeddah. “The strategic efforts by the Ministry of Sport and the Saudi Arabian Boxing Federation are really starting to show, not least with record numbers of men and women engaging with boxing. “I’m very impressed by the amount of time and energy they are exerting to develop boxing, from hosting local tournaments, training judges and referees, and investing in all levels of boxing — from grassroots through to headline events. “Their efforts have helped ensure the sport is developing like never before. Many new gyms have recently opened and many people are falling in love with boxing.” Following her professional debut on Sunday, Al-Naimi will have an eye on the rest of the evening’s fights, including Paul vs. Fury, which promises to be an unmissable spectacle. Commenting on the main event between the two undefeated adversaries, she offered her opinions on the matchup and who she believes could come out on top. “It will be a very close fight,” she said. “Fury is a professional boxer and Paul has been outstanding so far. I’m excited to see who will grab the win. For me, I’m leaning more towards Paul, but we shall see.” Jake Paul vs. Tommy Fury at Diriyah’s purpose-built arena is part of Diriyah Season’s second edition, which presents a series of world-class international sports and entertainment events from the birthplace of Saudi Arabia and UNESCO World Heritage site.