CAIRO: Customs officers at Cairo International Airport foiled attempts to smuggle narcotic pills and underwater hunting rifles into the country. An Egyptian passenger arriving from Poland was found hiding a large quantity of narcotic drugs in his luggage. Another Egyptian traveler arriving from the US was found hiding seven underwater hunting rifles in his bags. Customs authorities took legal measures against the two and referred them to the Public Prosecution Office. The passenger arriving from Warsaw was stopped while trying to exit the customs committee gate. Customs officers observed medicinal packages inside his baggage during an X-ray inspection. A manual search of the luggage revealed 132 prohibited drug strips containing 900 pills. In the second case, customs officers noticed the presence of metal condensates in luggage during an X-ray inspection, with the bag’s owner claiming that he was transporting a wooden children’s bed. But a manual search of the baggage led to the seizure of seven underwater hunting rifles as well as accessories. The rifles are prohibited under Law No. 394 of 1954, a report by the Explosives Police Department at the airport said. Separately, customs officers in Terminal 3 at Cairo International Airport foiled two attempts to smuggle narcotic drugs. Travelers arriving from Athens and Amsterdam were found in violation of Anti-Narcotics Law No. 162 of 1960 and a number of other regulations, officials said. Legal measures were taken and both passengers were referred for prosecution. In the first case, an Egyptian passenger arriving from Greece was caught with illegal drugs hidden inside chewing gum containers, as well as two electronic cigarettes and a bottle containing prohibited anesthetic oil. A second smuggling operation was thwarted in coordination with the Anti-Narcotics Department at the airport. Ten electronic cigarettes and sweets containing CBD were seized from an Egyptian passenger arriving from Amsterdam on an EgyptAir flight.