DUBAI: Argentinian model Georgina Rodriguez this week snapped pictures of herself on a shopping spree in Riyadh — and she took a moment to show some love for her favorite activewear brand, Alo Yoga. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle She visited a mall in Riyadh and opted for a sporty look, wearing a purple top and a miniskirt from the Los Angeles-based label. She paired them with a pair of leggings underneath, a pink cross-body bag, white sneakers and a black-and-white coat. She also held a large Alo duffle bag in grey as she posed for a picture in front of the store, before tagging the brand in her Instagram post. A post shared by Georgina Rodríguez (@georginagio) The Netflix star has been spotted multiple times sporting activewear from the brand. When she first arrived in Saudi Arabia with her partner Portuguese footballer Cristiano Ronaldo and their family in January, she wore a black set from the label and a white beanie. On another occasion, she stepped out wearing a white tracksuit with a black cap. In another picture she shared on Instagram on Jan. 14, she wore a faux fur bucket hat to accessorize her black yoga set. A post shared by Georgina Rodríguez (@georginagio) Last weekend, Rodriguez celebrated her 29th birthday with her family in Riyadh. The family was photographed at Armenian restaurant Lavash on The Boulevard. She was welcomed with a three-tier birthday cake that boasted flower designs and gold text that read “Happy Birthday” in Portuguese. A post shared by Georgina Rodríguez (@georginagio) Rodriguez, who now calls Saudi Arabia home after her partner signed a record-breaking deal with Al-Nassr, shared her pictures on Instagram, and wrote: “29 years completed surrounded by people I love with all my heart. Immensely grateful to God for everything. Thank you all for having spent a little of your time congratulating me and sending me so much love.” On Jan. 24, the model featured at the Joy Awards in Riyadh, showing off a midnight blue form-fitting velvet gown by Dubai-based Tunisian designer Ali Karoui. Her look featured a matching veil, gold pumps from Italian luxury shoemakers Le Silla, and jewelry from Kooheji, of Bahrain.