DUBAI: Ramadan is one of the most important periods of the year in the Middle East and North Africa region.
It is a time of abstinence, generosity, kindness, and shopping for many Muslims, with online consumer spending valued at $6.2 billion in 2022, marking a 39 percent increase compared to 2021, according to Statista.
It is undoubtedly an important time for marketers too, who are looking to attract and engage audiences.
Social media plays a key role during this period as consumers spend more time online due to shorter working hours. Some 50 percent of respondents in Saudi Arabia spend one to three hours on their smartphones each day, according to a survey by advertising platform AdColony and research company GlobalWebIndex. Short-form video platform TikTok stands out, with the app’s popularity growing both globally and in the region.
A recent study by TikTok showed that the platform provides the highest incremental exposure to TV compared to other video platforms.
A media mix of TV and TikTok will increase brand impact by 21 percent, compared to 11 percent for TV and other digital platforms, according to research conducted by Kantar CrossMedia.
Arab News spoke to Jochen Bischoff, head of Consumer Business Partnerships — Global Business Solutions at TikTok, to learn more about how advertisers can get the most out of the platform during the holy month.
He said that brands can “belong differently” on the platform. The diversity of audiences provides brands with various opportunities to participate in the Ramadan conversation.
Some 78 percent of TikTok users in the Gulf Cooperation Council countries said they can find “my type of people” on the platform, and 73 percent said they felt a deeper connection with the people they interact with on TikTok compared to other sites and apps, according to data from Flamingo. This means “brands can tap into these powerful bonds to make an impact,” said Bischoff.
Additionally, 83 percent said they discovered something new and found inspiration on the platform, according to research by Ipsos.
He added: “Brands can tap into this desire to be inspired, no matter what vertical they fall under.”
TikTok users had planned to spend around $1,600 last Ramadan, but ended up spending considerably more. Bischoff said: “[This] again proves the power of our creators and communities in influencing shopping decisions during the season and beyond.
“To put it simply, Ramadan is the season for shopping, and TikTok users love to shop.”
Bischoff advised brands to keep the “four Cs” in mind if they want to stand out: content, creators, communities and consumers.
He added: “Brands can bring a fresh twist to Ramadan content by utilizing the platform’s native genres and creative formats.
“For example, marketers can reimagine brand elements by marrying them with creative features, popular sounds and special lingo.”
This approach to “differentiated relevance pays off,” he added, with TikTok’s native creatives resulting in eight out of 10 significant ad recall uplifts last year.
Bischoff said: “In Ramadan, the relatability and authenticity of creators goes a long way, as users look to them for everything from iftar recipes to unboxing videos to comedy skits.”
Campaigns with creators see the most success, scoring 2.1 times the uplift in ad recall as opposed to non-native content, according to research by Ipsos.
Communities are crucial to the success of TikTok, and Ramadan is an ideal time for brands to “harness the power of communities and subcultures,” he said.
He added: “Finally, the consumer is at the heart of it all.
“Brands can tap into the desire of users to express themselves through a branded hashtag challenge, a unique ad format wherein a brand sponsors a hashtag challenge, transforming consumers from passive onlookers to active participants.”
There was a 30 percent increase in ad recall when branded hashtag challenges were used, according to a TikTok study conducted in Saudi Arabia, the UAE and Egypt. Based on the same study, there are three media and three creative lessons to consider when planning for Ramadan.
The conversation around Ramadan starts two to three weeks prior to the month, and this is when brands should launch their campaigns, as ad recall can increase by 1.4 times.
Bischoff also advises brands to be consistent and make sure they run their ads at least three out of four weeks — a strategy that can increase ad recall considerably.
Lastly, brands should consider bundling ad products, which can increase ad recall by 2.4 times.
Bischoff said brands should consider working with creators, which yields a 6 percent increase in absolute uplifts, and use Ramadan music themes, which can help with an additional 2 percent in absolute uplifts.
He added: “Brands need to be careful not to lose their true essence when trying to be part of the Ramadan moment.
“Every brand wants to belong during the holy month and remain at the heart of the conversation, rather than disrupting it.
“However, with everyone trying to belong to a single moment that’s shared by thousands of brands, everyone runs the risk of showing up similarly — think of typical visuals like large family gatherings at an iftar table, colorful lanterns, or crescent moons and stars. This is what the paradox of belonging is all about.” 