DUBAI: Palestinian real estate mogul Mohamed Hadid this week opened up about parenting his children, models Gigi, Bella and Anwar Hadid. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle During an interview with Emirati YouTube host Anas Bukhash, Hadid said that he teaches his US Palestinian Dutch children to not depend on others, even him.  A post shared by #ABtalks (@abtalks) “I don’t really give lectures to my kids. I don’t sit down and say how you should live your life. I let them live their life and create their own,” he said. “Go out and make life for yourself as if I don’t exist and you’re not looking for a man to take care of you. I think that is kind of (what) I see in my kids. “They’re all self-made on their own without my help,” he added. “The only thing that I helped them with is that I am there to love them and if they need any advice, they can call me, but be your own person.”  A post shared by #ABtalks (@abtalks) Hadid has two elder daughters Marielle and Alana. “They are — all five of them — I if I pass away tomorrow, I know I left I left them in good hands, their own hands,” he said.  A post shared by #ABtalks (@abtalks) When asked to describe his children in one word each, Hadid said Gigi is a “genius,” Bella is a “princess” and Anwar is a “king.” Hadid said that Bella was what the princess of Nazareth was called, and he feels his daughter represents royalty. “Gigi is a genius because she I think has found a way to insert herself in the fashion industry in a way that not too many people can,” he said. “She can design, she can model … she is eloquent, she has this combination that is hard to put in one human.”   “She makes companies famous. People sometimes think a model is just a model. She’s not a model she is really a spokeswoman,” he added. He also revealed that Gigi, who is a mother to her two-year-old daughter with Zayn Malik, Khai, wanted to be a forensic psychologist. When it comes to Anwar, Hadid said he is “very special.” “He’s an artist. He’s a musician. He’s very down to earth. He has very little need for physical things… I just love the way he is.”