Riyadh: The Saudi Center for ‎Government Communication at the Ministry of Media recently announced the start of the Vocational Training Initiative, one of the initiatives of the ‎Ignite‎ digital content program, in the second half of 2023, in cooperation with the Ministry of Communications and Information Technology. Dr. Abdullah Al-Maghlouth, undersecretary of the Ministry of Media for Communication,‎ told ‎Arab News‎ that ‎‎the initiative aims to propel the Kingdom to global leadership in the digital content sector by 2030. It aims to create more partnerships with the public and private sectors to develop digital content in several tracks, most importantly digital video, audio, games and advertisements. “The Vocational Training Initiative is one of the initiatives of the digital content program Ignite, which aims to provide on-the-job training opportunities and develop professional skills in the digital content sector and its platforms,‎” Al-Maghlouth said. ‏ ‎”‎The initiative seeks to provide training opportunities for up to 120 talented fresh graduates, in cooperation with 30 private sector companies. The said training will run for six months. ‎In addition to vocational training, the initiative provides training courses that enhance knowledge in the digital content sector for male and female talents‎,” he added. Candidates will have to pass through three stages of nomination determined by specialists in the field, as well as partner companies in the initiative. ‏ The ‎Ignite‎ program was launched to produce digital content, attract new investments and support the next generation of communications infrastructure. The program is a part of the Kingdom’s plan to boost its digital content and become a leading digital media and audio and visual content production hub. The CGC’s primary mission is to enhance government communications tools and achieve integration between them within the Ministry of Media’s strategy to improve the capabilities of those working in media.