RIYADH: The King Salman Humanitarian Aid and Relief Center recently signed a cooperation agreement with the UN High Commissioner for Refugees to provide protection services to the most vulnerable families, displaced people and refugees in several Yemeni governorates. Under the agreement, psychosocial support and specialized protection services will be provided to the most vulnerable groups and healthcare providers, and awareness-raising programs will be carried out among refugees and displaced people. The agreement was signed by KSrelief Supervisor General Dr. Abdullah Al-Rabeeah and the UNHCR’s Filippo Grandi on the sidelines of the third Riyadh International Humanitarian Forum. The agreement is part of efforts exerted by Saudi Arabia to enhance the protection of refugees and displaced people in some Yemeni governorates. Al-Rabeeah also signed a cooperation agreement with the director general of the International Organization for Migration, Antonio Vitorino. Under the agreement, information, visits, expertise and field experience, research, studies, reports, and statistics on humanitarian and relief works will be exchanged by the two sides. Both sides will also participate in seminars, workshops, and exhibitions. Cooperation will be enhanced in the areas of training and capacity building, as well as urgent relief assistance in emergency situations and crises. The agreements are part of KSrelief’s efforts to enhance coordination with UN organizations and humanitarian agencies in all areas of relief, and to expand humanitarian work. KSrelief also signed a cooperation agreement with the UN Population Fund to improve access for displaced and vulnerable women in Somalia to reproductive health services. The agreement aims to reduce child mortality by providing reproductive health services for pregnant women and girls in Somalia at 13 reproductive health centers in targeted regions, equipping operating rooms with the medical devices necessary to perform surgeries, and medicines needed by pregnant women to treat potential complications. It also stipulates allocating budgets necessary for assessment and health education teams, paying the salaries of medical staff working in health centers, and establishing three surgical camps for fistula patients.