RIYADH: Noor Riyadh, the largest light festival in the world, has extended its accompanying exhibition titled “From Spark to Spirit” until March 10 at Diriyah’s JAX district due to its incredible success, Riyadh Art officials said. The exhibition, originally set to run until Feb. 4, features innovative work by artists from across the globe in their exploration of three themes — technology, architectonics, and consciousness of light. Khaled Al-Hazani, executive director for Riyadh Art, said: “‘From Spark to Spirit’ is a beautiful and thought-provoking exhibition that aptly follows the success of the Noor Riyadh festival, which almost tripled in size from the inaugural edition.   “Light is a universally appreciated medium, which is incredibly moving and engaging. But it is perhaps only when you see the range of inspirations within the three themes at ‘From Spark to Spirit’ that you appreciate our relationship with light, which spans from the dawn of times to the digital age.” The second annual Noor Riyadh festival, held by the first national public art initiative Riyadh Art, has planted light installations across the Kingdom’s capital. It is an initiative to beautify the city under the theme “We Dream of New Horizons,” but now it furthers its seasonal offerings to ensure that art is indeed for all. “As engaging for the art aficionado as it is for children or first-time art gallery visitors, ‘From Spark to Spirit’ is a wonderful addition to both Riyadh and the Kingdom’s burgeoning art and culture scene and recommended for all,” Al-Hazani added.   At the Riyadh Art hub in the JAX district lies 30 intricate light works, focusing on the role of light in shaping the way we experience the world. Light itself is used as a tool for change in initiating cross-cultural dialogue. The exhibition showcases works for all ages. From Turkish artist Refik Anadol’s interactive chamber of infinite motion titled “Machine Dreams: Space,” to Saudi Moath Alofi’s flaming light sculpture inspired by the Kingdom’s dormant volcanoes, “Thnan,” visitors can venture into undiscovered worlds. Neville Wakefield led the curation of the exhibition with Gaida Al-Mogren as associate curator.   Al-Mogren said: “The journey across the three zones in ‘From Spark to Spirit’ is a dialogue between the generations, lighting up inspirations from both Saudi Arabia and across the world, and from both established and emerging artists. In addition, the exhibition also shines a light on the rapid cultural transformations shaping the Middle East, particularly here in the Kingdom. “Light is the source of all life on the planet and essential to our health and well-being. ‘From Spark to Spirit’ illuminates how we see distinguishing details, individual colors, movement, brightness and more, and the feedback we have received from the many members of the public attending the exhibit so far has been excellent.” 