DUBAI: Part-Saudi model Amira Al-Zuhair hit the runway at Milan Fashion Week, showing off an all-black look for luxury Italian label Dolce & Gabbana. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle Al-Zuhair was dressed in an expertly cut blazer dress, complete with a black rosette on the lapel. The chic, masculine-inspired look boasted a black tie, black tights and pointed pumps with a thin strap at the ankle. Al-Zuhair’s beauty look was centered on a dramatic red lip and slicked-back bun. A post shared by Amira Al Zuhair (@amiraalzuhair) Designs in black dominated the catwalk at Dolce & Gabbana's Milan Fashion Week show on Saturday, with the Italian luxury label offering plenty of dresses, suits and coats for women's wardrobes next winter. The duo Domenico Dolce and Stefano Gabbana opened their Autumn/Winter 2023-2024 show with a sheer black dress accessorized with a furry collar and black gloves, according to Reuters. Then came trouser suits and coats alongside sheer, and sometimes embroidered, frocks in lace, tulle and chiffon. Cropped black jackets and trousers were worn with white shirts and black ties in the collection called “Sensual.” “Sensuality is an important aspect of femininity that has nothing to do with being sexy,” the two designers said in show notes. “Sensuality is intrinsically connected to an inner experience that makes women spontaneous and natural. Free of any fabrication.”  A post shared by Dolce&Gabbana (@dolcegabbana) Dolce & Gabbana also had shiny gold and silver designs, including draped dresses and belted macs. Gold collars stood out on black lace tops. There was also a selection of all-red looks — outfits, tights and shoes — and white satin or chiffon dresses, trouser suits and coats. Detailing included shiny black crystals and black feathers on collars. A post shared by Amira Al Zuhair (@amiraalzuhair) Al-Zuhair was born in Paris to a French mother and Saudi father. She was raised in London, however. The family traveled frequently between the UK and Riyadh, so Al-Zuhair feels a strong cultural and emotional attachment to the Kingdom. “I love Saudi. It’s a big part of who I am and I really appreciate everything that’s going on at the moment — the advancements in culture, education, economy, and infrastructure,” she told previously Arab News. “The current leadership has done an amazing job at putting the country at the forefront of the global stage, and I’m really proud to see these changes.” Although Al-Zuhair grew up in Europe, she says she was raised with “traditional values.” From the get-go, she was clear about what she would, or wouldn’t, be prepared to do as a model. “I think the industry is very accommodating,” she says. “It’s all about what boundaries you set. My agency is amazing – and these boundaries have been respected with all aspects of my work and with all my clients. I’ve been very fortunate to have a very good experience.”