ABU DHABI: Sharjah Self-Defense Sports Club claimed first place in the AJP No-Gi Abu Dhabi International Jiu-Jitsu Championship 2023 on Sunday at Mubadala Arena in Zayed Sports City. For the latest updates, follow us on Twitter @ArabNewsSport The A.F.N.T and Shabab Al-Ahli Dubai Jiu-Jitsu Club finished in second and third places, respectively. The championship, organized by the UAE Jiu-Jitsu Federation in collaboration with Abu Dhabi Jiu-Jitsu Pro, marked the first competition in the new season of AJP events. The competitions for the amateur and professional divisions were held on Sunday, the second day of the event, with the UAE topping the country ranking, followed by Brazil and Russia in second and third. Mohammed Salem Al-Dhaheri, vice president of the UAEJJF, presented trophies to the clubs that had taken the top three positions, in a ceremony after the competition. Yousef Al-Batran, board member of the UAEJJF, congratulated the winners, saying: “Given the athletes’ incredible performances this weekend and the participation of hundreds of players from across the nation and beyond, we can say for sure that the 2023 sports season will be terrific. It further shows how the UAEJJF’s vision of developing the sport and nurturing future champions is succeeding.” Al-Batran stressed that the UAE athletes had performed above expectations and complimented the boisterous spectators who had gathered to cheer them on. Tariq Al-Bahri, director-general of the AJP, said the competition was a huge success. “I would like to thank clubs and academies both inside and outside the UAE for their support of the championship and for their faith in the events we organize in terms of promoting the best players and enabling them to develop fighting techniques and experiences. We will continue to coordinate such events across the emirates and abroad to promote jiu-jitsu,” he said. Ahmed Almahri, a competitor from the UAE who competed for Al-Wahda Club and won gold in the Blue/Amateur/56 kg class, said: “I am glad that I could make it to the podium and gain 600 rating points at the start of the season. I undertook extensive training prior to the event which, I believe, enabled me to win all my matches today and take home the gold.” Oman Sur Academy’s Abdullah Khamis Hamood Al-Farsi, who secured the bronze in the Brown/Professional/69 kg category, said: “I had long wanted to compete in this prestigious event, so I decided to put off my work and studies to compete in Abu Dhabi. These tournaments in Abu Dhabi are the real deal for international players as it gives the chance to socialize with the best players in the world.” Paulo Pinto from Commando Group Academy, who competes in the Men’s  Black/Professional/120 kg division, said: “Every time I fight in the Abu Dhabi and UAE championships, I feel as if I’m competing in the jiu-jitsu homeland. Nobody better embodies the virtues of the noble game than the UAE society. I’m glad to be around them.”