Thakher Development Company, the master developer of the masterplan and infrastructure of the upcoming Thakher Makkah project, has announced its support for a group of Saudi artists by showcasing several of their artworks across Novotel Thakher Makkah Hotel’s hallways.
Inaugurated in November 2022, Novotel Thakher Makkah Hotel obtained the artworks’ copyrights from the artists to exhibit them in its hallways. The move reflects the Saudi Ministry of Culture’s vision to include local cultural experiences within hospitality venues.
Abdulaziz bin Saleh Al-Aboudi, CEO of Thakher Development Company, said: “We, at Thakher Development Company, are very pleased to display Saudi artists’ works as part of our continuous support for Saudi Arabia’s Vision 2030 objectives in the development of both the cultural and tourism sectors.” The Thakher Makkah project, valued at SR26 billion, will provide 15,000 direct jobs and 18,000 indirect jobs. Thakher Makkah project is located approximately 1 km away from the Grand Mosque, and a few kilometers away from the holy sites of Muzdalifah, Mina and Arafat. The project recently obtained the off-plan sales permit from the Wafi off-plan sales and rent committee in the Saudi Ministry of Municipal, Rural Affairs and Housing.
Spanning over an area of 320,000 square meters, the project will include about 100 land plots of various uses for hotels, as well as residential, commercial, and service-related areas. Residential and hotel apartment units will also be available in various categories for ownership. Some of the international hotels in Thakher Makkah include Radisson Hotel, Park Inn by Radisson, and Novotel Hotel, the largest in the world in terms of the number of rooms.
Thakher Makkah by Thakher Development Company is one of the largest hospitality projects in the Kingdom. The company aims to change the real estate development scene in Makkah. Its vision is to contribute to the sustainable development of Makkah and to become the preferred destination for visitors to the holy city.
The Thakher Makkah project, valued at SR26 billion ($6.93 million), will provide 15,000 direct jobs and 18,000 indirect jobs. 