KING ABDULLAH ECONOMIC CITY: An amatuer Saudi golfer took a step toward her dream of turning professional at the ongoing Aramco Saudi Ladies International in the pro-am tournament. For the latest updates, follow us on Twitter @ArabNewsSport Hussa Alhudaithi, who comes from Riyadh and is a member of Ladies First Club for Golf, spoke to Arab News during the second day of ASLI currently being played at the Royal Green Golf & Country Club. “It is been a great experience for me especially it is my first tournament with the best in the world and I am sure it will impact my performance because we learn from in a tournament with the world’s best players,” she said. When Alhudaithi first took up the sport as a hobby while she was studying in the US, golf was very much a minority sport but the work of the sport promoters Saudi Golf Federation and Golf Saudi is helping to introduce a new generation of Saudis to golf. She expressed her gratitude to the SGF and Golf Saudi for give her the opportunity and opening the door for them to take part in such International tournaments. “So having opportunities like this that we can get exposed to, at this stage in golf, it's very important. We are very, very lucky,” she said. “The Saudi Golf Federation and Golf Saudi have worked hard to encourage the growth of Golf in Saudi Arabia, particularly for Saudi women. “A year ago, I joined the Ladies First Club which is the first golf club for ladies based in Riyadh and I have witnessed more and more new women golfers practicing and playing golf from all over the country,” she added. She explained that Saudi female players have many ingredients and an ideal environment for ascending to golf stardom: “The thing that reassures the future of female players here is their talent and enthusiasm for the game.” She continued: “Therefore, for example, many Saudi women will be able to reach a great level in the sport, and I am sure that there will be many on the way to prominence and brilliance, especially since everyone enjoys a lot of support and attention from the Saudi Golf Federation for the game, which preceded time to be always at the top.” Alhudaithi, who studied project management in San Diego, revealed that golf had given her a route to an active lifestyle. “Beside playing golf, I am a project manager and at the same time I am a writer and I have two books on the shelves of bookstores,” she said. As she was preparing to head for another round on Friday afternoon, Alhudaithi said she hopes one day to represent Saudi Arabia as a professional player. “There is nothing impossible even if we start late, I have a huge ambition as long as I am doing my passion.”