RIYADH: Two of boxing’s biggest rivals, Jake Paul and Tommy Fury, are set to face off in a fight labeled “The Truth” live in Saudi Arabia on Feb. 26.For the latest updates, follow us on Twitter @ArabNewsSport
Tickets were officially put on sale ahead of the boxing classic, Paul vs. Fury, the latest must-see sports event for Saudi fans live from Diriyah.
A part of Diriyah Season’s second edition, “The Truth” is organized by the Ministry of Sport in association with the Saudi Boxing Federation, Skill Challenge Entertainment, Most Valuable Promotions and Queensberry Promotions.
A history of bad blood and a war of words has set the stage for unforgettable drama and excitement, with thousands of fans expected to attend.
Twice postponed, the wait for “The Truth” has only intensified the animosity between the two rivals, with tickets now available for SR180 ($47) via www.diriyahseason.sa. For visa entry details, fans should use www.visitsaudi.com for information.
The night also includes the strongest Saudi undercard to date, together with Badou Jack taking on WBC cruiserweight champion Ilunga Makabu.
Ravi Samani, acting head of marketing, PR and communications at Skill Challenge Entertainment, said: “This is an epic encounter that’s simply unmissable for boxing fans across the Kingdom, region and the world.
“These two global superstars have never lost a fight. There is genuine dislike between the fighters and both have made bold predictions and promises. Fireworks await and under the bright lights of our stunning purpose-built arena in Diriyah, the time for talk is over. Get your tickets now.”
Originally an actor and social media personality, Paul (6-0, 4 KO) has enjoyed a meteoric rise in the world of boxing since turning professional. Now a global phenomenon with more than 10 million social media followers, the American enters the contest following back-to-back knockout wins over UFC legends Tyron Woodley and Anderson Silva.
Speaking at an official press conference in Riyadh earlier this week, Paul shared his thoughts on the upcoming contest and what fans can expect.
“I’m going to show him that this is the hurt business — it’s not a possibility that Tommy beats me. I live and breathe this sport, whereas Tommy is not that guy. He’s going to pay for the times he pulled out of this fight. I promise he’s not going to like this sport after I’m done with him.”
The half-brother of WBC and lineal heavyweight champion Tyson Fury, Britain’s Tommy Fury (8-0, 4 KO) also has a flawless professional record inside the ring. A global star following his success in reality television, Fury is part of a famous fighting family of the same name and has promised to end Paul’s career in emphatic fashion. For the latest updates, follow us on Twitter @ArabNewsSport