LONDON: Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Saturday reaffirmed his support for a stable, secure, and sovereign Iraq and the US’ commitment to cooperate with Baghdad under the strategic framework agreement between the two countries. His comments came during a meeting with Iraqi Prime Minister Mohammed Al-Sudani on the sidelines of the Munich Security Conference in Germany, US State Department Spokesperson Ned Price said in a statement. During the meeting, Blinken “expressed readiness to support the prime minister’s efforts to stabilize and grow Iraq’s economy, including by combating corruption and money laundering,” Price said.  Met with @IraqiGovt Prime Minister @mohamedshia in Munich at the @MunSecConf #MSC2023. We discussed U.S.-Iraq cooperation, including our security relationship and the continued fight against ISIS. Glad to work together to strengthen Iraq’s economy and achieve energy independence. pic.twitter.com/IVIpfxAY5G — Secretary Antony Blinken (@SecBlinken) February 18, 2023 The two sides also discussed the recent economic-focused US-Iraq Higher Coordinating Committee meeting in Washington, D.C., which focused on economic opportunities and cooperation in the field of energy and addressing climate challenges, he added. The meeting, which was held on Wednesday and co-chaired by Blinken and Iraqi Foreign Minister Fuad Hussein, underscored the breadth of US support for Iraq and discussed a wide range of issues. Price also said that the two leaders renewed their mutual commitment to regional security and defeating Daesh.  PM @mohamedshia met at his residence in Munich US Secretary of State @SecBlinken, on the sidelines of #MSC2023. His Excellency expressed Iraq's willingness to consolidate cooperation with the US to combat terrorism within the framework of providing training, advice & information. pic.twitter.com/s3A0r5ujTx — Government of Iraq - الحكومة العراقية (@IraqiGovt) February 18, 2023 Later on Saturday, Price said that Blinken held a phone call with Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas to reaffirm the US commitment to a negotiated two-state solution. “The secretary underscored the urgent need for Israelis and Palestinians to take steps that restore calm and our strong opposition to unilateral measures that would further escalate tensions,” Price said. Blinken and Abbas also discussed “efforts to improve the quality of life of the Palestinian people and enhance their security and freedom,” he added