DUBAI: French Algerian model Loli Bahia opened the Tory Burch show during New York Fashion Week in a neutral-colored winter outfit on Monday. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle A post shared by Tory Burch (@toryburch) The model hit the runway wearing a beige knee-length skirt, that seems to be making a fashion comeback this season, and a collared camel-colored sweater from the brand’s Fall/Winter 2023 collection. Her look was completed with a pair of black boots. “Thank you, Tory Burch for letting me open your show,” the model wrote on Instagram, sharing a picture of her outfit. Bahia was not the only Arab star modelling for the brand. She was joined by British Moroccan model Nora Attal who graced the runway in a khaki cut-out shirt, also with a collar, and a black blazer.   Bright green satin trousers finished off the polished look. They walked alongside US model Emily Ratajkowski and Russian catwalk star Irina Shayk. Ratajkowski wore a black-corset style top paired with a calf length skirt, fishnet stockings, and black pointy-toed heels, while Shayk wore a black dress with a white blazer embellished with a single bright red button. The catwalk presentation toyed with the notion of perfection, with a number of looks sent out in purposeful states of disrepair — think skirts being held together by large safety pins, broken heels and lopsided hardware on the leather accessories. “I wanted to challenge the concept of traditional femininity and beauty and twist it,” Burch said, according to Vogue US. “I don’t think women want rules anymore.” A post shared by Tory Burch (@toryburch) US Somali model Halima Aden sat front row alongside US catwalk star Ashley Graham, US actress Lana Condo, US actress and dancer Maddie Ziegler and US YouTuber and actress Claudia Sulewski. Other A-list stars in attendance included American actress Bella Thorne, British model Suki Waterhouse and British actress Claire Foy. For her part, Paris-born Bahia is quickly becoming one of the most in-demand models in the industry, having become a runway fixture after a breakthrough spring 2022 fashion month, where she walked in 65 shows. She has taken to the catwalk for a multitude of prestigious fashion houses, including Chanel, Louis Vuitton and Valentino.