DUBAI: Swedish-born Somali model Ikram Abdi was spotted in London this week attending a number of high-profile fashion events. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The hijab-wearing model turned heads in a black sleeveless dress which she paired with a latex turtle-neck top underneath and thigh-high boots. She opted for a black turban to match her look. Abdi met up with some of her model friends at the British Vogue and Tiffany & Co.’s Fashion and Film Party, including Belgian catwalk star Rose Bertram and Sudanese-Australian actress, model and artist Aweng Chuol. The trio posted a picture together that Abdi shared on her Instagram Stories. A post shared by (@ikramabdi) Dutch Moroccan Egyptian model Imaan Hammam was also among the attendees. She wore a sheer bodysuit style dress and had her signature curly hair tied back in a bun with soft strands framing her face. She accessorized her look with chunky gold bracelets and a black clutch. British model Jourdan Dunn, who co-hosted the event, wore a sparkling gown by Lebanese couturier Georges Hobeika. She posed for pictures in the silver, figure-hugging dress with a daring slit. “Wow a whole movieeee (sic),” she wrote on Instagram on Tuesday. “Thank you so much to everyone who pulled up last night, we ended fashion week right. Gonna get into it properly but first we need to get into this look. Giving Hollywood glamour the JD (Jourdan Dunn) way, notice how the dress is actually chain and beading.” A post shared by Jourdan Dunn (@jourdandunn) The event was also attended by US actor Leonardo DiCaprio, British model Naomi Campbell, singer Liam Payne, actress Florence Pugh, model Rosie Huntington-Whiteley, actresses Jodie Turner-Smith, Letitia Wright and Lily James, Canadian model Winnie Harlow, US tennis player Serena Williams, “West Side Story” star Ariana DeBose, award-winning actress Anya Taylor-Joy and many more. Taylor-Joy and Dunn acted as co-master of ceremonies, before DJs Tiffany Calver, Fat Tony and Hale Zero hit the stage. A post shared by (@ikramabdi) Abdi has been spotted at a number of events in London in recent days, including designer David Koma’s Autumn/Winter 2023 show afterparty, the Es x Perfect Magazine London Fashion Week party at The Dorchester hotel and Netflix's annual BAFTA Awards afterparty at Chiltern Firehouse. Abdi made her catwalk debut in 2018 during London Modest Fashion Week. She would go on to walk for the likes of Iceberg and Charles Jeffrey, as well as front campaigns for major international brands, including Burberry and Nike.