ABU DHABI: The newly rebranded Mubadala Arena in Abu Dhabi’s Zayed Sports City has been officially unveiled as part of an agreement between the UAE Jiu-Jitsu Federation and Mubadala Investment Company. For the latest updates, follow us on Twitter @ArabNewsSport Signage has been installed on the building’s facade showcasing the new identity of the emirate’s leading venue for international jiu-jitsu and other high-profile events. Both parties agreed in October 2022 that the investment arm of the Abu Dhabi government would become the first sponsor of the UAE national team and secure naming rights to the arena in the UAE capital. Mubadala Arena, which will serve as the primary location for a variety of events throughout the year, will carry the new name until 2026. The unveiling ceremony was attended by Mohammed Salem Al-Dhaheri, vice chairman of the UAEJJF, Homaid Al-Shimmari, deputy group CEO and chief corporate and human capital officer at Mubadala, and Fahad Ali Al-Shamsi, secretary general of the UAEJJF. “I would like to thank the Mubadala Investment Company for placing their trust in the UAE Jiu-Jitsu Federation,” Al-Dhaheri said. “The UAEJJF and Mubadala have a long-standing relationship, and we are dedicated to working together to support the country’s athletes, expand the sport’s horizons, and solidify the UAE capital’s standing as the world’s capital of jiu-jitsu. “We are delighted to partner with Mubadala given how much it already does for the nation’s youth through its community programs. Together, we aspire to help one another achieve our shared goals of delivering the nation’s best talent necessary support throughout their journey. This partnership will open a new chapter of opportunity, growth and development for the sport, and accelerate the nation’s ambitious growth strategy to maintain its status as a powerhouse of jiu-jitsu.” Al-Shimmari added: “Our strategic partnership with the UAE Jiu-Jitsu Federation to sponsor the national jiu-jitsu team and the arena is the latest step in Mubadala’s strategic growth and community support initiatives. It reflects our dedication to bolstering our efforts aimed at supporting the athletes in our country and increasing their competitiveness on regional and international levels. To be able to contribute back to the youth community is a fantastic opportunity and one that we are very passionate about.” Many national team athletes are attending a training camp in Australia to prepare for their participation in the seventh Asian Jiu-Jitsu Championship, which will take place in Thailand at the end of this month. The UAE enjoyed great success last season, winning at the Asian Championship in Bahrain, the World Championships in Abu Dhabi, and securing a record-breaking medal haul at the World Games 2022 in Alabama, US.