DUBAI: Part Arab models Loli Bahia and Imaan Hammam have been hopping from one fashion week to the next, with stops in New York, London and now Milan. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle Bahia, who is of French Algerian decent, walked for the Fendi show, which kick started Milan Fashion Week on Wednesday. The catwalk star wore a pink straight cut dress paired with a red purse and brown boots from the Italian luxury label’s Autumn/Winter 2023-2024 collection. Designer Kim Jones added pleated skirt aprons and trains to tailored trouser suits as well as shoulder-baring sleeves to waistcoats.   There were also boiler suits with skirts, slashed knits with halternecks, draped and ribbed dresses as well as Mac coats adorned with sparkling sequined lining. “It’s deconstructed but luxurious. There’s a little nod to punk and my admiration for DIY, but moved on towards something chic,” Jones said in the notes. Jones’ color palette mainly stuck to pale blue, greys, cream, brown and black. He added dabs of bright colors with pink and orange dresses.  A post shared by Fatima Almomen (@falmomen) Kuwaiti influencer Fatima Almomen attended the show and took to Instagram to document her trip to the venue. For Etro, Bahia opened the runway wearing a knit grey and blue dress, with a matching scarf that was wrapped around her chest. Thigh-high boots and a white bag completed the look.   Hammam, who is of Dutch, Egyptian and Moroccan decent, wore a similar style to Bahia’s look but in different colors. Hammam wore a beige knit dress with fringe detailing at the knee, with a brown and beige scarf wrapped around her shoulders, a black purse and black knee-high boots. US model Ashley Graham dazzled in a vibrant orange miniskirt and crop top as she joined a boho styled Taylor Hill who sat front row at the Etro show. There are 59 catwalk shows, including shows by Giorgio Armani, Prada, Bottega Veneta and Moschino, on the fashion week’s schedule between now and Feb. 27.