LONDON: A blue tick account on Twitter with more than 11,000 followers was accused of spreading fake news after linking a video of the 2020 Beirut port blast to Monday’s 7.5-magnitude earthquake that devastated parts of Syria and Turkiye. Self-described media and news company CBKNEWS on Monday published a video showing the explosion of ammonium nitrate stored in the Lebanese capital, claiming that the footage showed a nuclear plant that exploded due to the earthquake in Turkiye. Turkiye has no operational reactors and authorities confirmed that the Akkuyu nuclear site under construction did not suffer any damage during the quakes. The post was promptly mass reported and Twitter flagged the video to let users know about the misleading content. CBKNEWS was also reported to have published another video that was also labeled as misleading by the platform. The page subsequently acknowledged the claims by adding a message about the origin of the video, but it has yet to delete the post. Since its publication, the video has been retweeted 712 times, including by other blue tick accounts. The post has sparked anger among users, who called on the channel to take down the post and avoid spreading misleading information. “This tweet has been reported for misinformation. I suggest everyone else do the same,” one user said.  A so-called “news” account with a bought blue tick, posting distasteful utter bollocks. This was in Beirut two years ago. A shameful use of an absolute tragedy to gain followers / traction. You should be thoroughly ashamed. — Greg Scott (@GregScottTV) February 6, 2023 Another described the post as “distatesful,” adding that the “so-called news account” should be “thoroughly ashamed” for posting the content.  A so-called “news” account with a bought blue tick, posting distasteful utter bollocks. This was in Beirut two years ago. A shameful use of an absolute tragedy to gain followers / traction. You should be thoroughly ashamed. — Greg Scott (@GregScottTV) February 6, 2023 On Tuesday, Turkish police said that they had detained four people over “provocative” social media posts following the earthquake. A larger investigation into social media accounts was continuing, police said, without providing further information about the misleading content.