ABU DHABI: More than 2,000 government officials, entrepreneurs and thought leaders from around the world are set to attend the second edition of Investopia, which opens in the UAE capital on Thursday. The theme of this year’s event, held at the Hilton Abu Dhabi Yas Island, is “Envisioning Opportunities in Times of Change.” There will also be three sub-themes: “Envisioning Opportunities in Today’s Economy,” “The Future of National Wealth” and “Growth Opportunities in Times of Decarbonisation,” Emirates News Agency reported. As well as presentations by more than 100 speakers, delegates from 40 countries will discuss topics such as institutional asset allocation, AI, emerging markets, venture investing, digital assets, mobility and biotechnology. UAE’s Minister of Economy Abdullah bin Touq Al-Marri said: “The second edition of the conference kicks off at a very important time globally, as we witness structural transformations in markets, global investment trends and the rapid advancement of fourth industrial revolution technologies, all while moving toward investments in a sustainable and low-carbon economy. “We in the UAE have set an ambitious future vision of creating the optimal environment for conducting business. However, our focus extends beyond merely enhancing our investment attraction capabilities. Our focus is on achieving our aspirations of sustainable development through these investments,” he added “Investopia plays a vital role in the UAE’s efforts to provide a platform for business leaders and government officials worldwide to engage in global discussions, establish partnerships and integrate new developmental and technological trends in the world of business and economy, promoting sustainable solutions for a better future.” Investopia is a global investment platform launched by the UAE. This year’s event will also include a series of round tables by the Canada-UAE Business Council, Business Finland and the Emirates News Agency, and meetings between the leaders of global institutions on investment opportunities and areas for collaboration. 