BEIRUT: Lebanon’s political and economic meltdown descended into farce on Thursday when the head of the central bank was charged with embezzlement, money laundering and tax evasion. Investigating judge Raja Hamoush filed the charges against Riad Salameh, governor of the Banque du Liban, his brother Raja and an adviser, Marianne Hoayek. The charges follow an 18-month investigation by Lebanese authorities into allegations that Salameh and his brother embezzled more than $300 million from the central bank between 2002 and 2015. Judicial authorities in at least five European countries are investigating similar allegations. The brothers deny the charges. Riad Salameh dismissed the accusations of illicit enrichment as part of an effort to scapegoat him for Lebanon’s financial collapse, which brought increased scrutiny of his role as governor. The head of the central bank since 1993, he still enjoys backing from powerful Lebanese leaders. He said the charges were “not an indictment” and pledged to abide by judicial procedures. “One is innocent until proven guilty by a court of law,” he said. Many judges in Lebanon also owe their appointments to politicians and their decisions are often overtly politicized. A judicial source told Arab News that the charges against Salameh were political retaliation for an order on Wednesday by caretaker Prime Minister Najib Mikati that instructed police and security forces to ignore instructions from Ghada Aoun, another judge who is investigating banking crimes. Mikati said Aoun had “overstepped her authority.” The judge described the prime minister’s edict as “unprecedented interference in the work of the judiciary.” The judicial source told Arab News: “Judge Aoun is affiliated with the Free Patriotic Movement and is politicized, and it seems that the movement decided to respond to Mikati’s move by pushing for action on another judicial file, which is the one with Judge Hamoush.” Aoun’s spokesperson, lawyer Pascale Fahd, said the judge “continues in her work and performs her duties in the case of depositors and banks and combating money laundering.” He added: “The decision taken against her is illegal and does not stop her work. Judge Ghada Aoun has the appropriate and legal ways to implement arrest warrants. She will not watch the Lebanese people being stolen from, nor will she stand by as our prime minister takes the side of those who stole from us, and protects them.” The Lebanese Judges Club, an activist organization that emerged during the current political deadlock, criticized “the blatant interference in the judiciary, which constitutes a dangerous precedent that violates the most basic legal principles, and should be retracted immediately without delay.”