DUBAI: Emirates Airlines is partnering with the International Humanitarian City to launch an airbridge to transport urgent relief supplies, medical supplies, and equipment to support on-the-ground aid efforts and search and rescue operations in Turkiye and Syria. Over the next two weeks, Emirates SkyCargo plans to dedicate cargo space for approximately 100 tonnes of humanitarian relief goods across its daily flight operations to Istanbul. On Friday, the first shipments were delivered including high thermal blankets and family tents from the UNHCR, followed by World Health Organization and World Food Programme relief cargoes including medical kits and shelter items. More blankets, tents, shelter kits, flash lights, water distribution ramps, and trauma and emergency health kits will also be delivered. The critical emergency supplies carried by Emirates will then be delivered to affected areas in both countries by local organizations, providing aid to the hundreds of thousands of people affected by the earthquakes. “We stand with the Turkish and Syrian people and are working with experts like the International Humanitarian City to help provide urgent relief to those affected and displaced by the earthquakes, as well as support the complex recovery efforts on the ground,” Emirates Chief Executive Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed Al-Maktoum said. “Emirates has extensive experience in supporting humanitarian relief efforts, and through its three daily flights to Istanbul will offer regular and consistent widebody capacity for relief items and medical supplies. “Emirates also supports the UAE’s ongoing humanitarian efforts to support Turkiye and Syria, and Dubai’s unique position as the world’s largest international aid logistics hub means that we can efficiently reach disaster stricken areas and the most vulnerable people as quickly as possible.” Emirates’ freight division has a long history of working with the IHC. In the aftermath of the Port of Beirut explosion in 2020, the airline facilitated relief efforts to Lebanon. Emirates also launched a humanitarian air bridge between Dubai and India in 2021 to transport medical and relief items during the  COVID-19 outbreak. Last year, the airline offered cargo capacity to organizations collaborating with the IHC to transport critical equipment and supplies directly to five flooded cities in Pakistan. 