China Mobile International and Mobile Telecommunications Saudi Company, popularly known as Zain KSA, signed a memorandum of understanding on Feb. 6 in Riyadh, to establish an all-around partnership. The signing ceremony was held at the LEAP 23 tech conference, the largest tech event in Saudi Arabia and the region, attended by Colin Wang, managing director of CMI Middle East and Africa, and Sultan Al-Hadlag, executive general manager of Zain KSA.
CMI and Zain KSA will work together on developing competitive products and solutions, and carrying out high-level collaboration. Both parties will strive to implement key projects to contribute to the development of the Saudi ICT sector. Based on CMI’s global network resources, carrier service brand iConnect, and technical capabilities, both parties will further enhance cooperation in empowering 5G development and carrier service transformation, and geographic expansion to better serve individual users as well as organizations and enterprises across the Kingdom with world-class services. • CMI and Zain KSA will work together on developing competitive products and solutions, and carrying out high-level collaboration. • Both parties will strive to implement key projects to contribute to the development of the Saudi ICT sector. Wang said: “CMI is dedicated to serving the Middle East market, providing comprehensive services under the iConnect brand to local carrier partners and contributing to local social and economic development. The partnership with Zain KSA will further promote the transformation of Saudi Arabia’s telecom industry and facilitate high-quality projects under Saudi Vision 2030.”
Commenting on the MoU, Al-Hadlag said: “Zain KSA and CMI have a long-term partnership in many areas. The MoU will further enhance our collaboration in market exploration and product innovation, which serves Zain KSA’s strategic goals of improving our service capabilities and product offerings to individuals and enterprises to accelerate nationwide digital transformation and support the national ICT goals.”
CMI has invested heavily in the Middle East region to connect carriers to a reliable, scalable and resilient network via its extensive global infrastructure. This includes more than 80 cable resources and 230 PoPs, with international transmission bandwidth of over 122 T. CMI strives to create a partner ecosystem with regional and global carrier partners and empower local operators to provide convenient services and solutions based on CMI’s 5G solutions. CMI’s carrier-specific service, iConnect, offers comprehensive professional services including voice, SMS, mobile and data, to global operators. Zain KSA is a leading telecom service provider in Saudi Arabia, establishing itself as a digital partner covering 5G networks, digital payment services, cloud computing, IoT solutions, fiber services, drones and many others.
CMI and Zain KSA have been cooperating in data, voice, roaming, and innovative IoT solutions for years. The strategic cooperation under this MoU between both parties will further bring closer collaborations and promote digital transformation across Saudi Arabia to support its transition to a digital economy and society. 