DUBAI: Palestinian-Dutch model Gigi Hadid this week shared rare insights into her life as mother to two-year-old daughter Khai, whom she co-parents with former boyfriend Zayn Malik. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle In an interview with The Wall Street Journal Magazine, the 27-year-old single mom said that she has “a very mom morning routine.”  A post shared by Gigi Hadid (@gigihadid) “Whatever time she’s (Khai) waking up, I’m waking up,” said Hadid, which is usually between 7:30 a.m. to 8:30 a.m. Hadid added that for breakfast, she eats whatever her daughter is having. “I make her pancakes and sausages every day,” she said.  A post shared by Gigi Hadid (@gigihadid) “For Christmas, she asked me what I was going to ask Santa for and so I said I wanted a new pancake pan. I ordered myself, via Santa, this cool pancake pan — each little circle pancake is a different animal, so she can have lion pancakes or llama pancakes. It’s really fun,” Hadid added. Unlike what you might think, Hadid does not have a strict workout routine. Running after her daughter is her exercise, she said. “We walk a lot. We do yoga together. With lifting her and running around all day and going to the park, I get moving,” she said.  A post shared by Gigi Hadid (@gigihadid) The model also said that she has found an easy way to keep her busy schedule in control. She said she is skilled at organization, scheduling and making sure her many projects get the time they need. “That also helps me give a lot of time to Khai,” she said. “(My schedule) is so janky. It can be like Khai’s craft paper. This month it’s (on) a yellow piece of paper. And it’s literally a square calendar with six lines to make seven days. I take a picture on my phone, and I edit through the month then I’ll do all the edits and rewrite it the next month.”  A post shared by Gigi Hadid (@gigihadid) In September, Hadid celebrated her daughter’s second birthday at an intimate party, sharing a picture of a multi-layered cake decorated with characters from Peppa Pig, which seems to be Khai’s favorite cartoon show. Khai’s name is a nod to Hadid’s Palestinian grandmother Khairiah.