JEDDAH: The King Abdullah University of Science and Technology is dedicated to serving the people of Saudi Arabia and the world, its president said. Speaking at the second KAUST Research Open Week in Thuwal, a four-day event that ends on Thursday, Dr. Tony Chan highlighted the close links between the institution and the Kingdom. “KAUST research is rooted in the community and unique environment where we live,” he said. “It is anchored to KAUST’s vision and mission to serve the people of the Kingdom and the world, and is committed to making an impact. “The Kingdom is now more focused than ever to realize Saudi Vision 2030 through its newly adopted national research, development and innovation mandates.” The open week, which this year has the theme “Research for the Future of Saudi Arabia,” seeks to highlight KAUST’s research contribution to shaping the Kingdom through education, community engagement and scientific discoveries. It also provides a platform for the university’s faculty, researchers, government officials and industry leaders to network and share ideas. The event attracts experts from around the world in the fields of energy, water, environment, food and health and technology. Pierre Magistretti, vice president for research, said the inaugural open week in 2021 was held against the backdrop of the COVID-19 pandemic. “Since the outbreak, the world has been rapidly adapting and transforming. It embraces a post-pandemic future, measuring the impressive impact that science, technology and innovation have recently had in saving human lives, maintaining human interactions, and preserving our lives and vital social activities,” he said. At this year’s event, experts from around the world would convene to “explore new directions for research that could contribute toward the realization of national impact aspirations,” Magistretti added. “The forum will serve as a platform to showcase the many projects we have with our partners and collaborators in the Kingdom, and will also be a great opportunity to network with universities, industry, government leaders, faculty, researchers and students.”