DUBAI: The much-anticipated trailer for Netflix’s “Next in Fashion,” which Part-Palestinian catwalk star Gigi Hadid co-hosts alongside British TV personality Tan France, is out. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The streaming service released the official trailer for the second season of the show, set for release on March 3, on Thursday. In the trailer, Hadid is seen alongside A-list guest stars including her supermodel sister Bella Hadid, Italian designer Donatella Versace, US model Hailey Bieber, French fashion designer Olivier Rousteing, South African model Candice Swanepoel, “Emily in Paris” star Ashley Park, Danish model Helena Christensen and US internet personality Emma Chamberlain.   “Season 2 of Next in Fashion drops on Netflix March 3rd with some MAJOR guest judges, looks, and laughs,” Hadid captioned the trailer post she shared on Instagram. “Can’t wait for you to see and fall in love with the competing designers, just as we did.” The first season of the fashion competition show, which premiered in January 2020, featured 18 designers who faced weekly design challenges to win a $250,000 prize and a chance to have their collection sold on Net-a-Porter. This season will feature a group of up-and-coming talents who will compete to win $200,000, a launch of their collection on Rent the Runway and “the chance to share their designs with the world,” the streaming service said.  A post shared by Gigi Hadid (@gigihadid) The selection of up-and-coming designers includes Amari Carter, Bao Tranchi, Courtney Smith, Danny Godoy, Deontre Hancock, Desyrée Nicole, Eliana Batsakis, James Ford, Megan O’Cain, Nigel Xavier, Qaysean Williams and Usama Ishtay. The streaming service released the first teaser on Jan. 27. “So excited to join Tan France,” Hadid said in an Instagram post at the time. “We had the most special and fun time with these designers and can’t wait for you to meet them!” The supermodel first announced that she will take part in the new season in February 2022.  A post shared by Gigi Hadid (@gigihadid) Filming for the show began in April 2022, according to the model. Hadid took to Instagram to share her excitement over the upcoming episodes at the time and talk about her co-host, calling the British reality television star her “brother” and saying that shooting the new show together has been “a joy of my life.” France also lauded his “Next in Fashion” co-host and dubbed her an “amazing mom.”