DUBAI: Saudi model and influencer Hala Abdallah and Palestinian social media star Julia Hussein this week attended Italian fashion label Moschino’s show in style at Milan Fashion Week. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The two turned heads in matching playful outfits, wearing single-shouldered form-fitting dresses with colorful circle designs. The Arab stars made a statement by wearing inflated floats, designed by Moschino, to top off their look. They both kept their hair in slicked-back buns to show off their stylish outfits.  A post shared by HALA (@thehala) “Two cover girls,” wrote Abdallah on Instagram, while Hussein posted: “Arriving to Moschino low key.” Abdallah and Hussein were joined by Tunisian actress Rym Saidi Breidy who also attended the show. Designer Jeremy Scott’s latest Moschino collection was a little less literal than usual, but that is not to say it was subtle.  A post shared by Julia Hussein (@juliahussein___) Scott switched from surrealism to punk, declaring his intentions with exaggerated spiked wigs worn by all the models. Opening looks played with the influences of Salvador Dali, with houndstooth patterns that appeared to be melting, and wavy hemlines on jackets and skirts giving the same surrealist effect. The looks then veered into pure punk with jackets and skirts covered with spikes and accented with mesh, adorned with bejeweled broaches for an aristo-punk vibe, which culminated with a tulle princess dress worn with bejeweled opera gloves. Shoes featured zig-zag heels. Dutch Moroccan Egyptian model Imaan Hammam walked the runway in two different looks. The first was a black leather jacket with gold detailing and matching shorts that were layered over fishnet stockings. For her second look, she cut a stylish figure in a two-piece set — a tube top shaped like a large belt, and a floor-length zip-up leather skirt. Hammam has been busy in Milan, also walking for Max Mara and Etro. The in-demand model wore a structured green dress with a halter neck and cape during the Max Mara show, and for Etro stepped on the runway in a beige knit dress with fringe detailing at the knee, with a brown and beige scarf wrapped around her shoulders, a black purse and black knee-high boots.