JERUSALEM: Cracks have emerged within Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s hardline government, with a row over the demolition of a settlement outpost in the occupied West Bank testing the fledgling coalition. Netanyahu vowed in December to expand settlements across the West Bank, as he returned to power at the helm of the most right-wing government in Israeli history. But a split over policy on the ground surfaced last month, when Israeli troops moved in to dismantle a wildcat outpost in the northern West Bank dubbed Or Haim on orders from Defense Minister Yoav Gallant. Despite such outposts being considered illegal by the state, two far-right members of the Cabinet, Finance Minister Bezalel Smotrich and Public Security Minister Itamar Ben-Gvir, objected to its demolition. “There won’t be one law for the Arabs and another for the Jews ... law is law!” said Ben-Gvir, calling for the demolition of unauthorised Palestinian construction in the largest part of the West Bank where Israel exercises civil as well as security control. Ben-Gvir has authority over border police operating in the West Bank, while Smotrich has taken on an additional role overseeing civil affairs in the Palestinian territory. Netanyahu backed Gallant over the outpost affair, saying settlements must be “coordinated in advance with the prime minister and security officials, which was not done in this case.” While the Or Haim outpost consisted of just a handful of makeshift structures, the handling of its demolition hints at problems within the coalition. Gideon Rahat, senior fellow at the Israel Democracy Institute, said the situation has “very dangerous potential for the state of Israel.” “It’s not normal to have two people that have parallel responsibilities when it comes to the use of force,” he said, with Smotrich sitting in the second ministerial post created in the Defense Ministry. Smotrich boycotted a Cabinet meeting in protest over the handling over the affair. Israeli soldiers returned to the Or Haim site two days after the initial evacuation, to expel settlers attempting to rebuild in the area. “While this seems like a small conflict that was resolved, it shouldn’t be there in the first place,” said Rahat. The issue is bound to resurface because there are dozens of similar outposts dotted across the West Bank, which Israel has occupied since the Six-Day War of 1967. All settlements in occupied territory are deemed illegal under international law, but Israel distinguishes between wildcat outposts, built without its permission, and state-approved settlements which are home to an estimated 475,000 Israelis.